500+ Words Essay on A Stitch in Time Saves Nine
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine is a wise saying. This phrase refers to a hole in a cloth. This hole would certainly get bigger if not fixed in time. It means that a timely effort that will prevent more work later. It certainly means prevention is better than cure. Furthermore, this important phrase tells us procrastination is a bad habit. Hence, if a problem exists, then one must fix it immediately. If not fixed in time, then even more problems can arise.
Importance of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”
First of all, time is a very precious aspect of life. According to many successful individuals, time is money. This precious blessing of time is very limited. There are only 24 hours in a day. Also, the average human life expectancy probably ranges from 80 to 90 years. This certainly means that one can’t afford to waste time at all. Hence, “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine” avoids wastage of time.
Another advantage of this concept is less effort. This is due to early dealing with a problem. Dealing with a problem early requires a certain amount of effort. However, with delay the problem becomes ugly. Now to rectify this even more difficult problem means much more effort. So, following “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine” saves effort.
“A Stitch in Time Saves Nine” has another advantage. It is better decision making. Following this concept means that a person has sufficient time to handle a problem. Therefore, a person can prepare solutions efficiently. In contrast, a person who delays problems will have a shortage of time. Consequently, this person would become stressful and nervous. Due to this, poor decision making would result
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Real-Life Examples of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”
First of all, mention must be made of Israel. After the formation of Israel, the Arab States were preparing to attack Israel. Probably everyone thought Israel would lose. Israel thought that instead of waiting, they should take some action. Therefore, Israel decided to attack first. Consequently, the Arab military became weak and Israel won the war. Hence, Israel made use of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”.
Valery Legasov was an inorganic chemist in USSR. In 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster took place. Legasov made a great contribution to prevent future such accidents. Most Noteworthy, he gave warning of the use of graphite. There was an application of graphite in an emergency shutdown system. Furthermore, Legasov gave an explanation that this graphite was responsible for the disaster. Hence, he saved the lives of millions of people.
Finally, Osama Bin Laden death is another example here. In 2011 United States Navy SEALs led the operation to kill Bin Laden. Certainly, his death was a big relief for everyone. Consequently, the US forced saved the lives of many innocent people.
In conclusion, “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine” is extremely essential to follow. Above all, it should be the code of life for everyone. Furthermore, one who follows it always be successful. Also, one who neglects it is on the path of failure.
FAQs on of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”
Q.1 Tell one advantage of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”?
A.1 One advantage of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine” is saving of precious time.
Q.2 How Israel made use of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”?
A.2 Israel certainly made use of “A Stitch in Time Saves Nine”. They did this by attacking Arab military first. They did not wait to see what happens.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp