500+ Words Essay on All That Glitters Is Not Gold
All That Glitters Is Not Gold Essay – Gold is a precious chemical element that emits spectacular glitter. However, glitter is also a characteristic of a lot of other substances. Furthermore, these substances are not gold and are of inferior quality. In relation to this, a wise saying came into existence. This wise saying is “all that glitters is not gold”. Most noteworthy, the phrase essentially means that not everything that is shiny is valuable. This is because somethings can be superficially attractive only.
Reasons Why All that Glitters Is Not Gold
First of all, people act in a charming manner when they try to deceive. This charm can certainly fool many people. Most noteworthy, if somebody is being nice to you does not mean they have your best interests in mind. Moreover, they may behave in a pleasant way but it does not mean they are telling the truth.
The idea of all that glitters could evoke thoughts of splendor or superficial beauty. However, people must not allow themselves to be blinded by material appearances. Most noteworthy, people must look into the core of things and make informed judgments about them.
One must stay rational and not be deceived by material greed. Furthermore, a person’s senses may perceive something to be glitter. However, it may turn out to be not gold when a person uses rational logical thinking. Hence, one must always be rational and logical when it comes to decisions.
It often happens, that something that is too good turns out to be useless. Whenever someone offers you something too good to be true, it is a warning sign. Probably, this thing being offered is not what it seems. If someone offers such a thing, just take a step back and think about it critically. Consequently, one must analyze that thing from every angle before making a decision.
Finally, false friends are the last reason. Some friends may be nice to us face to face. However, they talk negatively about us behind our backs. This is a clear case of “all that glitters is not gold”.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
All That Glitters Is Not Gold Real Life Examples
Poor people often get fascinated by the lifestyle of wealthy people. Furthermore, they have a strong desire to become rich and wealthy. However, what they don’t realize is that rich people have problems of their own. Most noteworthy, many rich people have many family problems and suffer from depression.
Another good example can be a good appearance. A person who wears nice expensive clothes quickly wins the admiration of many. However, such a person may be an evil person and completely unethical.
The entertainment industry is also a notable example. From the outside, the entertainment appears very attractive and interesting to work in. The glamour associated with the entertainment industry makes people obsessed with it. However, the inside reality is quite dark. Most noteworthy, several struggling actors are made to do disgraceful things in order to succeed.
In conclusion, “All that glitters is not gold” is the belief system of a logical and intelligent person. The statement reflects a mature outlook on life. “All that glitters is not gold” is certainly an age-old mantra that shall always remain relevant. The one who believes in this would almost never regret his life choices.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp