500+ Words Essay on Ambedkar Jayanti
Ambedkar Jayanti is celebrated in India every year on the 14th of April to pay respect to Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar. On this auspicious day, we remember the contribution, accomplishment of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Dalits treat Dr. Ambedkar as their God because he helped them a lot. The major contribution by Dr. Ambedkar was helping Dalits to get equal authority, status, and respect in the society as others. Dr. Ambedkar is one of the greatest leaders in Indian history. In this essay on Ambedkar Jayanti, we will see his contribution, achievements, and more about him.
Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar – History and Background
Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar was one of the first Dalits to get a complete education in India. He achieved a degree in political science, economics, and law. He was a great lawyer, writer, historian, and also one of the great political leaders. He was born in Madhya Pradesh.
He was born on 14th April 1990, and hence we celebrate this day as the birth anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar – Ambedkar Jayanti. Bhimabai and Ramji Maloji Sakpal were parents of Dr. Ambedkar. He is mostly known as “Baba Saheb”. Ambedkar Jayanti is mostly celebrated in Maharashtra by Dalits because he always fought for the rights of Dalits.
He himself has faced a lot of injustice in his life. His education journey was not much easier than others. After independence, Dalits were treated as “untouchable”. They were facing a lot of discrimination everywhere. Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar came ahead and fought for them and got Dalits their equal rights and freedom as others.
Contribution by Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar
Dr. Ambedkar contributed a lot to make in Indian Law and Education. Dr. Amdedkar formed a political party which was called as “Independent Labour Party”. After India got independence, he was the first minister of law and committee chairman who forms the Indian Constitution.
Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar contributed a lot in forming law, order, and constitution of India. He was always against the discrimination happening against the Dalits. He forms new laws in support of Dalits and gave them education and equal rights as other castes.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Achievements of Dr. Baba Sahedb Ambedkar
One of the biggest achievements of Dr. Ambedkar was Bharat Ratna. He won the Bharat Ratna award in 1990. He was a scientist, sociologist, freedom fighter, journalist, human rights activist, philosopher, and much more. Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar completed his post-graduate from Columbia University and London School of Economics. Ambedkar is an inspiration of young lawyers across the world.
Conclusion
Dr. Ambedkar was one of the greatest leaders in the history of India. We should pay him respect and tribute on what he has contributed to Indian law and constitution. He helped Dalits and made sure they get what they deserve! Because of him, many students are able to get quality education in India at a lesser fee. There are people who are economically backward and cannot afford education in the high-level institute, but because Baba Saheb even they are able to get high-quality education for their children which will secure the future of India.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp