500+ Words Essay on Badminton
Badminton is an indoor sport. Because the shuttlecock is light in weight. As a result, it is easily blown away by the wind. Therefore it is an indoor sport. Furthermore, people play badminton with racquets. The racquets are of carbon fiber composites which has nylon strings.
This makes it lightweight and flexible. Furthermore, the shuttlecock is of goose feather. The goose feather is embedded in a cork shape. The cork has leather within it. There are certain rules of badminton and the people who play have to follow it.
About the Sport
Most noteworthy the sport can be either of singles or doubles. Which means either a single-player on both the sides or double players can play. Also, the sport takes place within a badminton court which is 13.4 m long and 6.1 m wide.
Also, there is a net in the middle of the court. You can only hit the shuttlecock once. As a result, if it hits the ground then your opponent will get a point. The shuttlecock always gets hit facing the bottom. Because it is the heavier part and the gravity is responsible for it.
Read 500 Words Essay on Sports and Games here
To score a point the person has to hit the shuttlecock in a way that the opponent may not be able to hit it back. And the shuttlecock touches the ground.
Also, a person can score a point if their opponent hits the shuttlecock outside the court or on the net. The whole game continues a certain number of points. The player who reaches that limit wins. Because the points are the number fouls the opponent makes in the game.
The point limit is usually 20-21 points. Moreover, if the game gets tied at 20 then the point limit gets extended. The player who scores the next point will win the game.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Rules of Badminton
Furthermore, at the beginning of the game, there is a toss. The winner of the toss decides the courtside and the service. Also, the player service should make a service diagonally on the other side of the court. If the player misses it then it may cost him a point.
However, once the game is in motion then the players can move anywhere. Moreover, the service should always be done underarm, that is it should be under the waist. Overarm service is not allowed. Therefore a player has to keep that in mind always so that he may not lose a point.
If the player touches the net or any part of the shuttlecock then the opponent gains a point. Furthermore, the referee monitors the game. He sits on a high chair so that each foul is visible to him.
Also, a set of other referees are there to take note of the close calls. And to tell the main judge if any fouls get neglected. Most Noteworthy the game has two rest periods, the first rest period is of 90 seconds. But the second one is of 5 minutes.
Badminton is a game of speed and stamina. The person has to move throughout the game at different sides of the court. As a result, a person has to keep himself physically fit in order to excel in this game.
FAQs on Badminton
Q1. Why is Badminton an indoor sport?
A1. Badminton is an indoor sport because the shuttlecock is light in weight. As a result, the wind can blow it away.
Q2. What happens when the shuttlecock hits the net?
A2. When the shuttlecock hits the net the opponent on the other side gets a point. Also if anybody part touches the shuttlecock then it would be a foul. that results in giving of a point.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp