500 Words Essay on Balanced Diet
We have grown up listening to the term ‘balanced diet’ in science. It refers to a diet that has all the essential nutrients and minerals that will keep us healthy. Having a balanced diet has been encouraged by our childhood. After all, it is important in keeping our health well.
A person intakes appropriate amounts of proteins, minerals, and nutrients in a balanced diet. It is quite necessary for the smooth functioning of our body. If we consume a balanced diet regularly, we will always remain healthy. It lessens any chances of falling ill. Moreover, a balanced diet also boosts our immunity system.
Importance of a Balanced Diet
Most people believe that a balanced diet is definitely the key to a healthy lifestyle. It is rightly believed as even scientists say so. When we always consume a balanced diet, we will maintain our physical as well as mental health. A balanced diet must contain the proper foods that are consumed in apt quantities. A perfect balanced diet is composed of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, minerals, high fiber content, vitamins, and more.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Moreover, nowadays the trend of junk food is here to stay. People are not taking a balanced diet rather eating all sorts of harmful foods. It is more important than ever to tell people about the importance of a balanced diet. You cannot merely exercise and expect your body to stay fit. A balanced diet is crucial for that.
Most importantly, it is called a ‘balanced’ diet because it requires all the foods to be eaten in a balanced manner. For instance, if you intake large amounts of carbohydrates and a little amount of protein, then that will not be called a balanced diet, even if you are eating the right foods. The balance needs to be maintained for that.
How to Have a Balanced Diet?
One can always adopt a healthy lifestyle by starting to consume a balanced diet. Firstly, one must definitely increase the amount of liquid to consume in a day. Fluids are very important for the human body to function healthily. As almost 80% of our body is filled with water, we need it for good metabolism. Thus, start with drinking at least two to three liters of water every day. Moreover, try cutting down on the consumption of tea, coffee, alcohol, and other such addictive liquids.
Furthermore, one must always eat fresh vegetables and fruits. As fresh fruits and vegetables are great sources of fiber and vitamins, we must consume them for good body growth. Try to avoid eating deep-fried or overcooked food as it loses all its nutrients. The balanced diet must have the five essential elements, i.e. bitter, sour, sweet, pungent and salty. Also, the emphasis is on fresh fruits because the processed or packed ones do not have nutrients.
Most importantly, always chew your food patiently. Do not just swallow it after chewing for four-five times. This way your food won’t get digested properly. Savor the food slowly and steadily. Next, do not eat in excess. You must know when to draw the line and stop when you don’t have the appetite. Therefore, we see how a balanced diet will keep you healthy and fit. It will improve the quality of your life and keep all the illnesses away.
FAQs on Balanced Diet Essay
Q.1 Why is a balanced diet important?
A.1 Balanced diet is important because it keeps us fit and fine. It also prevents any illnesses or diseases.
Q.2 How can we have a balanced diet?
A.2 One can have a balanced diet by having a good amount of water. Furthermore, one must always consume fresh foods and chew slowly for proper digestion.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp