500+ Words Essay on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated a scheme for girls called Beti Bachao Beti Padhao. It is to save the girl child and educate the girl child all over India. The program was started on the 22nd of January, 2015 at Panipat. This scheme was initiated first especially in Haryana because this state has a very low female sex ratio (775/1000) all over the country. It has been effectively applied in a hundred districts across the country. It is to improve the status of girls in the country.
Aim of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme
The aim of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme is to stop the drop in girl child sex ratio. Therefore, it will encourage women’s empowerment in order to improve women status in the country. It is a tri-ministerial initiative of the following ministries:
Women and Child Development
Health and Family Welfare
Human Resource Development
Reasons for Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Initiative
Two main reasons for Beti Bachao Beti Padhao initiative are:
Low child-sex ratio called for the launch of the scheme
The Child Sex Ratio (CSR) census data for 0-6 years was 933 girls per 1,000 boys in 2001, which declined to 918 girls for every 1,000 boys in 2011. UNICEF in 2012 Reported that India ranked 41st among 195 countries. A 2011 Population Census revealed that the population ratio of India in 2011 was 943 females per 1000 of males. The Sex Ratio 2011, however, indications an upward trend from the census 2001 data.
Crime against Women on the rise
Aborting of female foeticide by post ultrasonic testing. Thus this type of discrimination against girl infants resulted in a huge drop in the female population. Also, crimes and sex abuse, so on, have been on a constant high.
Back in the year 2014, Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi spoke on the event of International Day of the Girl Child. He highlighted on the abolition of female foeticide and asked suggestions from the Indian citizens on MyGov.in portal.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Primary Objective of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao
‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ is a collaborative initiative of the government of India. Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Human Resource Development and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare started this scheme. It covers all Indian states and union territories.
The scheme has three primary objectives
Prevent female infanticide.
Develop new schemes and work collaboratively to ensure that every girl child is secured and protected.
Ensure every girl child gets a quality education.
Difficulties in Implementing Beti Bachao Beti Padhao
Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme having difficulty to gain momentum. This is due to the following facts.
Social abuses and orthodox rituals like female foeticide, Sati, child marriage and domestic abuse obstruct the due execution of this scheme.
The government machinery and the police are, however, to get the magnitude of women atrocities seriously. This also weakens the effective implementation of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme.
The mindset of people remains conservative besides the numerous campaigns spreading awareness among people.
The scheme needs civic body support to achieve the objectives of the scheme.
The Dowry system is the main obstacles in the successful implementation and impact of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme
Impact of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme
It is important to look for the benefit that ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, is India’s most high profile campaign. It is to empower the girl child in the country. Some major impacts are-
Balancing sex ratios
Bringing girl child rights into focus
Achieving girl-child access to education
Conclusion
The Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme is an initiative by the Government of India to address the issues revolving around girl children in India. This initiative under the scheme have started giving fruit as the level of awareness among the people is increasing.
Therefore, people now have a serious impact to work for girl child upliftment in society. The success of this scheme will add tremendously to the economic growth of the country. This is due to the fact that India cannot afford to have a large part of its population remain neglected.
  Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp