500 Words Essay on Blood Donation
Blood donation refers to a practice where people donate their blood to people so it helps them with their health problems. Blood is one of the most essential fluids of our body that helps in the smooth functioning of our body. If the body loses blood in excessive amounts, people to get deadly diseases and even die. Thus, we see how blood donation is literally life-saving which helps people. It is also a sign of humanity that unites people irrespective of caste, creed, religion and more.
World Blood Donor Day
In order to raise awareness about this life-saving procedure, the world observes 14th June as Blood Donor Day. It promotes blood donation and urges people to save lives by donating blood.
Furthermore, this day is quite an important day as it makes people about safe blood. People need to know the basics to be able to donate blood. For instance, there are certain criteria one must fulfill to donate blood. Not everyone knows that. Thus, this day helps in doing so.
Most importantly, on this day, the WHO organizes a campaign that invites people to donate blood. A person eligible to donate blood must fall in the age bracket of 17-66 years of age. They must weigh more than 50 kgs and have sound health. People suffering from diseases like diabetes, hypertension and more cannot donate blood.
Therefore, on World Blood Donor Day, they also appreciate blood donors for their contribution to making the world a better place.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Benefits of Blood Donation
As we all know by now, blood donation has a lot of benefits. Why a person requires blood has various reasons. It may be an illness or also an accident, nonetheless, it is important. The blood that we donate helps a person in need. It enhances their health condition and makes them overcome their critical situation.
In other words, blood donation does not simply help that specific person but also contributes to a responsible gesture towards society. Moreover, it also enhances the health of the donor. As the cell depletion allows a way for production, not new cells that freshen our body system.
Furthermore, it also revitalizes our body for better health. Next up, a single blood donation helps at least three people in need. Thus, imagine how one donation can make a difference in so many people’s lives.
In addition, blood donation makes the work of blood banks easier. It stabilizes their collection which helps other people get blood urgently. The demand is still higher than the supply in blood banks, so we must donate more and more of it to help people.
Other than that, blood donation also helps us know about our bodies. As a blood donation requires a preliminary health check-up, we get a complete diagnosis. It makes us aware of the levels of iron, hemoglobin, cholesterol and more.
Thus, we see that blood donation is an important procedure in saving human life. It is a great initiative that must be encouraged everywhere.
FAQs on Blood Donation Essay
Q.1 When is Blood donor day celebrated and why?
A.1 World Blood Donors Day is celebrated on 14th June to create awareness about blood donation. This day also appreciates the blood donors for their contribution towards society in improving people’s lives.
Q.2 Why is donating blood beneficial?
A.2 Donating blood is very beneficial for the donor as well as the acceptor. It saves lives and helps people overcome their critical situation. The blood donor’s body gets revitalized and generates new cells which freshen it up.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp