500+ Words Essay on Capital Punishment
Every one of us is familiar with the term punishment. But Capital Punishment is something very few people understand. Capital punishment is a legal death penalty ordered by the court against the violation of criminal laws. In addition, the method of punishment varies from country to country. Where some countries hung the culprits until death and some shoot or give them a lethal injection.
Types of Capital Punishments
In this topic, we are going to discuss the various methods of punishment that are used in different countries. But, before that let’s talk about the capital punishments that people used in the past. Earlier, the capital punishments are more like torture rather than a death penalty. They used to strain and punish the body of the culprit to the extreme that he/she dies because of the pain and fear of torture.
Besides, modern methods are quicker and less painful than traditional methods.
Electrocution– In this method, the criminal is tied to a chair and a high voltage current that can kill a man easily is passed through the body. In addition, it causes organ failure (especially heart).
Tranquilization– This method gives the person a slow but painless death as the toxin injections are injected into his body that takes up to several hours for the criminal to die.
Beheading– Generally, the Arab and Gulf countries use this method. Where they decide the death sentence by the crime of the person. Furthermore, in this method, they simply cut the person’s head apart from the body.
Stoning– In this the criminal is beaten till death. Also, it is the most painful method of execution.
Shooting– The criminal is either shoot in the head or in his/her chest in this method.
Hanging– This method simply involves the hanging of culprit till death.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Advantages and Disadvantages of Capital Punishments
Although many people think that it’s a violation of human rights and the Human Rights Commission strongly opposes capital punishment still many countries continue this practice.
The advantages of capital punishment are that they give people an idea of what the law is capable of doing and the criminal can never escape from the punishment no matter who he/she is.
In addition, anyone who is thinking about committing a crime will think twice before committing a crime. Furthermore, a criminal that is in prison for his crime cannot harm anyone of the outside world.
The disadvantages are that we do not give the person a second chance to change. Besides, many times the real criminal escape the trial and the innocent soul of the prosecution claimed to guilty by false claims. Also, many punishments are painful and make a mess of the body of the criminal.
To conclude, we can say that capital punishment is the harsh reality of our world. Also, on one hand, it decreases the crime rate and on the other violates many human rights.
Besides, all these types of punishment are not justifiable and the court and administrative bodies should try to find an alternative for it.
FAQs about Capital Punishment
Q.1 What is the difference between the death penalty and capital punishment?
A.1 For many people the term death penalty and capital punishment is the same thing but there is a minute difference between them. The implementation of the death penalty is not death but capital punishment itself means execution.
Q.2 Does capital punishment decrease the rate of crime?
A.2 There is no solid proof related to this but scientists think that reduces the chances of major crimes to a certain level.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp