500+ Words Essay on Children’s Day 
We celebrate Children’s day in India on 14th of November every year. India’s First Prime Minister Pundit Jawaharlal Nehru was born in Allahabad on 14th November 1889. Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru popularly known as Chacha Nehru was very fond of children. His love for Children was immense. He always advocated that the children of the country are entitled to a fulfilled childhood and higher education.
The History behind 14th November as the Children’s day
Because of Chacha Nehru’s immense love for children, 14th November was declared as Children’s day since the death of Nehru in 1964. Nationwide this day is celebrated to shower love and affection towards children.
Schools and Colleges celebrate Children’s day with great enthusiasm. Teachers and students of every school on this day come out of their daily routine to celebrate the day.
Celebration in School
Children are the torchbearer of the future. Hence, every school celebrates this day with various events like quiz, debates, cultural programs like dance, music, and drama. Teachers organize and perform various cultural events for the students.
Chacha Nehru always believed that a child is future of tomorrow and hence through drama or play the teachers often on this day communicate to the Children the importance of having a fulfilled childhood to have a country with better tomorrow.
Many schools also celebrate the day by organizing sports events. School teachers often invite children from nearby orphanage or slum to participate with the students of the school together. Such gestures are very welcoming as the children learn to share and accommodate everyone from society with them. Such gestures also instill a sense of equality among students.
Teachers and parents on this day also shower their love and affection towards the child by distributing gifts, chocolates, and toys. Schools also organize various talk shows, seminars where inspirational personalities from various fields like sports, education, cultural and entertainment sector come and deliver motivational speeches to the students.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Celebrations other than School
Several NGOs take this day as the opportunity to extend a helping hand to the underprivileged children. They also organize several programs for underprivileged children. Often, people distribute books, food, chocolates, toys, and other necessary items among the children. Also, they organize cultural events for the orphanages where the children participate in events like quiz, dance, music, sports, etc. Even prizes, awards are distributed to the children. Various awareness sessions are conducted to make the children aware of various schemes implemented or announced by the government for their education, health, and welfare.
Even on television, some special programs are telecasted on the day of Children’s day. Several newspapers also bring out special articles on this day, which demonstrates the immense talent of the children in various corner of the country.
Conclusion
As Pundit Jawaharlal Nehru said, “The children of today will make the India of tomorrow. The way we bring them up will determine the future of the country.” Children’s day is a beautiful occasion to remember and celebrate the famous thoughts of Chacha Nehru. Celebration on children’s day is a great way to make both children and adults aware that children are the true future of the country. Hence everyone should understand the responsibility towards providing a fulfilled childhood to every child.
The love and care that we give to our Children today, disregard of their social and economic status, will bloom as the fate of our country tomorrow. Children’s day celebration is a tribute to this thought.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp