500+ Words Essay on Cleanliness is Next to Godliness
“Cleanliness is next to Godliness” is a wise saying. Most noteworthy, the statement equates Cleanliness with Godliness. Godliness means the quality of devoutly religious. Similarly, Cleanliness is the quality of being devoutly clean and hygienic. Cleanliness refers to the state of being clean. Therefore, Cleanliness demands a commitment from an individual to be pure and clean. Furthermore, being clean is an extremely important requirement for everyone. This is because Cleanliness helps in maintaining a healthy mind and body.
Benefits of Cleanliness
A healthy body is probably the most significant benefit of Cleanliness. A person who follows Cleanliness religiously will certainly enjoy this advantage. Cleanliness reduces the chances of catching diseases. Furthermore, a clean person seldom falls sick. Also, Cleanliness improves the durability of the body as well. The hygienic person shows quick recovery after being sick. It seems like Cleanliness increases the life expectancy of people.
Cleanliness is essential for the mental wellbeing of the individual as well. This is because a clean atmosphere has a positive effect on the mind. The thinking ability of an individual certainly improves. Individuals are better able to concentrate on their work due to clean surroundings. Furthermore, the memorization of the brain becomes better due to the hygienic ambiance.
Cleanliness certainly increases the productivity of work. A neat and clean Nation will probably have high productivity. This is in contrast to a dirty Nation which will have low productivity. One reason for it is fewer absent days in a hygienic country. On the contrary, in a filthy country, people will fall sick more often. This leads to a high number of absent days in an unhygienic country.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
How to Achieve Cleanliness
First of all, the dustbin is a filthy place. It attracts various pests and germs of various kinds. Consequently, these pests and germs bring various kinds of diseases with them. Therefore, it becomes essential to empty the dustbin regularly.
Furthermore, dustbin must have a lid to avoid flies. Not emptying the dustbin for a long time can significantly increase the chances of catching infections. Also, the correct placement of the dustbin is important. It should be kept in isolation away from where people usually are.
One should keep the house or office dust-free. This is possible with regularly dusting the place. Dust can cause various respiratory problems and allergies. Furthermore, when dusting does take place then spider webs form on the walls. These webs can make the home or office to appear creepy. Hence, one must ensure to do regular dusting.
Cleaning the toilet is a very important part of high-quality Cleanliness. Toilets should be cleaned at least twice per week. There should be a proper use of phenyl, acids, and other disinfectants for cleaning toilets. Dirty parts should be thoroughly scrubbed.
Maintaining personal hygiene is an integral part of the process of Cleanliness. Every individual must take a regular bath daily. When bathing, individuals should properly use soap and shampoo. Furthermore, nails should be cut every week. This is because long nail collects dirt under them. Individual must pay attention to oral hygiene as well. Teeth should certainly be brushed at least twice daily. Also, dirty clothes, socks, and undergarments should be avoided.
To sum it up, Cleanliness is one of the most important ways for a blissful life. It is certainly the first step in building a healthy and strong body. Above all, Cleanliness should be practiced with a religion-like commitment.
FAQs on Cleanliness is Next to Godliness
Q1 Explain how Cleanliness increases the productivity of a Nation?
A1 Cleanliness certainly increases the productivity of a nation. This is due to the fewer absent days of individuals. Furthermore, fewer absent days are possible because individuals in clean Nations seldom fall sick.
Q2 Name one practice to maintain personal hygiene?
A2 One practice to maintain personal hygiene is brushing teeth at least twice daily.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp