500+ Words Essay on Cleanliness
Cleanliness refers to the state of being clean. It is something which must not be forced but encouraged. Cleanliness is a good habit which can enhance the quality of one’s life. Cleanliness of all kinds carries equal weight.
Most importantly, parents and teachers must encourage this habit from early on kids. This will ensure that the awareness of cleanliness. It is not a tough task to complete, rather cleanliness is quite easy. One should never make the mistake of compromising with cleanliness. It is essential for the health and well-being of humans and animals.
Importance of Cleanliness
Similar to the basic essentials of life like food, water, shelter, cleanliness also holds great significance in life. It is, in fact, one of the most important things for healthy living. The first and foremost importance of cleanliness is that it means the absence of disease. Cleanliness helps us stay refreshed and hygienic on a personal level.
Further, it lessens the chances of any viruses or bacteria to harm us. When you stay clean and keep the environment clean, you are less likely to fall ill. You can enjoy good health and lead an active lifestyle. It will keep you physically fit and also enhance your lifespan.
Similarly, cleanliness in our surroundings will mean enhanced beauty and healthiness. It will not only beautify the area but also make it more attractive. This can be helpful in attracting more and tourists to enhance the economy of the country. It will also earn a good name for the country in the eyes of foreign tourists.
In short, cleanliness is vital for one’s health and spiritual development. In addition to this, it is also essential for the environmental development of our country.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Way to maintain Cleanliness
As we all know, it is not tough to maintain cleanliness. It is very important to maintain cleanliness for a healthy life. When we talk about our personal lives, we can maintain cleanliness by bathing regularly. It is very important to wash our hands before eating food. This will ensure no bacteria enter your body and prevent illnesses.
Subsequently, we must always eat healthy food and consume clean water. Avoid eating out often and drinking water from unclean sources. Personal hygiene must be taken care of. Remember to trim your nails timely before they grow long. Long nails are very dirty and that means you will have dirt under your hands at all times. In addition, maintain the habit of brushing and flossing twice a day for oral hygiene.
In terms of surroundings, you must clean your house daily to get rid of dust. Never litter the roads of your city to keep them clean. For instance, when you finish a packet of chips, do not throw it out of the car window. Keep it with you and throw it in the dustbin.
Furthermore, avoid using plastic bags. Encourage recycling and reusing. Try to plant more trees to make the environment healthier and cleaner.
In conclusion, everyone must maintain cleanliness. Whether it is an individual effort or the collective effort of the government. In order to maintain cleanliness, ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ was launched. We can learn from it and be a part of it. If everyone does their bit responsibly, we can make earth cleaner and greener.
FAQ on Cleanliness
Q.1 Why is cleanliness important?
A.1 Cleanliness is important because it keeps away diseases. It furthermore, improves the quality of life.
Q.2 How can one maintain cleanliness?
A.2 Cleanliness can be maintained on both personal levels and in our surroundings. We must bathe, wash hands, brush, and floss regularly. We must also not litter and use plastic to make the environment clean.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp