500+ Words Essay on Conservation of Natural Resources
Natural resources are something that is occurring naturally on Earth. It forms an indispensable part of our lives. It comprises of air, water, sunlight, coal, petroleum, natural gas, fossil fuels, oil, etc. However, they are exploited by humans for economic gain. Natural resources are at depletion because of the overuse. Some of these resources are available in abundance with the capability to renew. On the other hand, some are non-renewable. Thus, it demands a responsible behavior for the conservation so as to ensure their sustainability.
Why Conserve Natural Resources?
Human beings depend upon the natural resources for their development activities. If the resources are not used wisely, it would create an imbalance in the environment. Thus would head us in opposition to an eco-friendly atmosphere. The need for conservation arises from the significance of natural resources. It is as follows-
Water is a renewable natural resource. We use it for drinking, producing electricity, irrigation, in various industries and for a number of activities. Its scarcity would cause loss of vegetation, adverse effect on flora and fauna, erosion of soil, etc.
Plants and animals provide a wide range of industrial and biological materials. Also, it assists in the manufacturing of medicine and for various other uses.
It takes millions of years for the formation of natural resources.
Fossil fuels are of great importance. A lot of energy is produced from coal, oil and natural gas all of which are fossil fuels.
Forest is the most important natural resource which helps in economic development. Forest provides paper, furniture, timber, medicine, gum, etc. Also, it maintains a balance in the ecosystem. Moreover, it prevents soil erosion and protects wildlife.
Land resources support natural vegetation, wildlife, transport. The land also provides us food, cloth, shelter, and other basic needs.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Ways to Conserve Natural Resources
Different ministries of the Government, national and international agencies have been working for the purpose of conserving the natural resources.
Environment education must be imparted by including the same in the curricula of the schools.
National Parks are making an effort for the safety of the natural resources.
By reducing, reusing and recycling of non-renewable resources.
Non-human species must be disturbed only to meet the basic needs.
Planting of more and more trees to save our forest resources.
Seeking alternatives to non-renewable resources.
By increased use of bio-gas and bio-fuels.
By preventing the dumping of industrial wastes into the river bodies. This is a measure to protect the rich marine life.
Overgrazing must be prevented. Also, poaching of animals must be controlled.
Practicing crop rotation techniques helps in maintaining the fertility of the soil.
Burning of fossil fuels emits carbon-di-oxide which is a major greenhouse gas. It is responsible for the greenhouse effect. Thus, the burning of fossil fuels must be controlled.
These are some of the measures which we can undertake for the conservation of natural resources. As Human- beings, we have a social responsibility to fulfill towards nature. Thus, while using resources, we shall follow the principle of sustainable development.
Conclusion
Natural resources are a present for the creation. These help in satisfying the human needs to its fullest. Furthermore, the rational use of natural resources maintains the earth’s atmosphere. Also, the wise use leads to protection of bio-diversity. Humans cannot imagine their lives without natural resources. Thus, the conservation of the same is essential.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp