500+ Words Essay on Same Sex Marriage
Love comes in all forms. It would be wrong to say that a person cannot marry someone just because they are not from the opposite sex. The world is evolving more than ever and we need to keep up with times. Same-sex marriage is when any person chooses to marry the same sex instead of the opposite. We should not shun this concept anymore.
In other words, gone are the days when people had to be ashamed because of their sexuality. In today’s accepting world, we must make way for every human being irrespective of their gender. One needs to realize that there are more than two genders. The society needs to be more inclusive of all kinds of people. It will make the world a happier place when everyone feels they are accepted and appreciated.
Importance of Same-Sex Marriage
All of us are human beings at the end of the day. Before labeling each other with the religion we follow or the people we choose to love. Everyone must realize this fact and act like it. Same-sex marriage is more than important in today’s time as the world is progressing.
Moreover, people can finally be themselves and own their individuality. Just because someone does not love a person from the opposite sex, it does not make them wrong. We can love anyone we want.
In addition, it is better to spend the rest of your life with someone from the same sex you love rather from the opposite sex whom you don’t even like. People will obviously lead happy lives with their loved ones rather than being forced to marry someone.
Same-sex marriage gives the other people hope that they can also have a future. In addition, it paves a brighter path for the LGBTQ community. This community has already suffered enough due to discrimination. They deserve to be able to marry whomever they wish irrespective of gender or sex.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
The Debate on Same-Sex Marriage
Same-sex marriage in India especially is not encouraged. There are many countries which have stringent laws against it yet the people are open-minded. In India, neither are the laws lenient but the people are also very narrow-minded.
Most importantly, they never give these people a chance to prove themselves. Indian society does not like change. It is not as adaptable as western countries. India still needs time to be okay with the concept of same-sex marriage.
However, not knowing about the concept is a different thing and completely opposing it is different. Not only in India, but in other countries, people do not support same-sex marriage because they think it is against their religion.
Thus, this creates a lot of problems for them. People do not want the LGBTQ community to get the right to marry their lovers. This takes away their very basic human rights. The LGBTQ community has fought for a long time for their rights. Yet there is a far way to go.
When we talk about India, we see how it is on its way of progress. Like how it ended Section 377, which criminalizes homosexuality. However, we still have a long way to go in terms of the LGBTQ community. We must not any form of love be it same-sex marriage or anything else.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp