500 Words Essay on Depletion of Natural Resources
Humans are using natural resources endlessly day by day. The population explosion is causing overexploitation of natural resources with little or no care to conserving them. To meet this massive population, depletion of natural resources is happening. However, we need to understand that natural resources are finite. Even renewable resources are not being given enough time to replenish. Thus, one can even wonder what the condition of non-renewable resources might be. Therefore, this depletion of natural resources is quite harmful to the earth and its inhabitants.
Impact of Depletion of Natural Resources
As we require minerals for almost everything from housing to business, they are being used up rapidly. There has been a major decline in these minerals like coal, copper and more. Soon, we will run out of them all if we do not conserve them properly.
Similarly, the oil reserves are also running out. We won’t be able to produce more oil and thus we won’t get any petroleum. There will be inflation in prices and many economies will crumble due to this lack of resources.
Similarly, forests are being cut down at an alarming rate. For instance, the recent decision to cut down the Aarey forest in Mumbai is a major example. However, the damage being done due to this deforestation is quite worrisome. This will only spike the carbon dioxide levels and alter the water cycle on earth. We will soon face frequent faces of floods and soil erosion through which even our biodiversity will decrease.
Most importantly, the way we are wasting water needs to be checked right away. As it is many countries are facing a water crisis and we know life without water is impossible. The farmers won’t get enough water for irrigation. It can also result in famine and many more deadly consequences. We must not waste these resources instead find ways to prevent this depletion.
Ways to Prevent Depletion of Natural Resource
There are many ways in which everyone can help in this prevention of natural resource depletion. Firstly, we must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. You can do it by stop wasting electricity. Try to carpool with your neighbors or relative and take public transport instead.
Moreover, stop polluting water. As it is our freshwater bodies are running out of clean water. We must organize cleanliness drives to clean the water of these bodies. Do not let your tap run for a long time. The industries must be banned from dumping their toxic waste into the water. Furthermore, do not take long showers, instead use the buckets for a bath.
Most importantly, please plant more trees. Preserve our existing forests and do not let them be cut down. They are a very important natural resource needed for human survival. Use less paper to avoid cutting down trees. We can all come together and prevent this depletion of natural resources only if we realize the harmful consequences.
FAQs on Depletion of Natural Resources
Q.1 What is the impact of natural resource depletion?
A.1 Natural resource depletion means that we will soon find it hard to survive. The water cycle will be altered, carbon dioxide levels will increase, inflation will happen in oil prices, economies can also crumble following this depletion.
Q.2 How can we prevent natural resource depletion?
A.2 Everyone can do their bit to prevent this depletion. We must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels which are soon running out. Moreover, we must organize cleanliness drives to clear out water and make it safe. Other than that, instead of cutting down forests, plant more trees.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp