500+ Words Essay on Diwali
First of all, understand that India is the land of festivals. However, none of the festivals comes close to Diwali. It is certainly one of the biggest festivals in India. It is probably the brightest festival in the world. People of different religions celebrate Diwali. Most noteworthy, the festival signifies the victory of light over darkness. This also means the triumph of good over evil and knowledge over ignorance. It is known as the festival of lights. Consequently, there are bright lights all over the whole country during Diwali. In this essay on Diwali, we will see the religious and spiritual significance of Diwali.
The Religious Significance of Diwali
The religious significance of this festival has differences. It varies from one region to another in India. There is an association of many deities, cultures, and traditions with Diwali. The reason for these differences is probably local harvest festivals. Hence, there was a fusion of these harvest festivals into one pan-Hindu festival.
According to the Ramayana, Diwali is the day of the return of Rama. This day Lord Rama returned to Ayodhya along with his wife Sita. This return was made after Rama defeated demon King Ravana. Furthermore, Rama’s brother Lakshmana and Hanuman also came back to Ayodhya victorious.
There is another popular tradition for the reason of Diwali. Here Lord Vishnu as an incarnation of Krishna killed Narakasura. Narakasura was certainly a demon. Above all, this victory brought the release of 16000 captive girls.
Furthermore, this victory shows the triumph of good over evil. This is due to Lord Krishna being good and Narakasura being evil.
Association of Diwali to Goddess Lakshmi is the belief of many Hindus. Lakshmi is the wife of Lord Vishnu. She also happens to be the Goddess of wealth and prosperity.
According to a legend, Diwali is the night of Lakshmi wedding. This night she chose and wed Vishnu. Eastern India Hindus associate Diwali with Goddess Durga or kali. Some Hindus believe Diwali to be the start of a new year.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
The Spiritual Significance of Diwali
First of all, many people try to forgive people during Diwali. It is certainly an occasion where people forget disputes. Therefore, friendships and relationships get stronger during Diwali. People remove all feelings of hatred from their hearts.

This beautiful festival brings prosperity. Hindu merchants open new account books on Diwali. Furthermore, they also pray for success and prosperity. People also buy new clothes for themselves and for others.
This light festival brings peace to people. It brings the light of peace to the heart. Diwali certainly brings spiritual calmness to people. Sharing joy and happiness is another spiritual benefit of Diwali. People visit each other’s houses during this festival of lights. They do happy communication, eat good meals, and enjoy fireworks.
Finally, to sum it up, Diwali is a great joyful occasion in India. One cannot imagine the delightful contribution of this glorious festival. It is certainly one of the greatest festivals in the world.
FAQs on Diwali
Q.1 Why there is are differences in the religious significance of Diwali?
A.1 There certainly are differences in the religious significance of Diwali. This is due to the local harvest festivals. These festivals certainly came together to form one pan-Hindu festival.
Q.2 Tell how Diwali brings prosperity?
A.2 Diwali brings prosperity as Hindu merchants open new account books on Diwali. Furthermore, they also pray for success and prosperity.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp