500 Words Essay on Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat
It is a government scheme talked by the PM of India Mr. Narendra Modi on the occasion of National unity day (Rashtriya Ekta Divas) 31st October 2015. Also, 31st October happens to be the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel.
Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat Scheme
It is a scheme launched by Narendra Modi – the Prime Minister of India on 31st October 2016. Furthermore, the main purpose of the scheme is to enrich and enhance the tradition and culture of the country.
In addition, it launched an initiative to boost the cultural connection between the states and union territories of the country. Furthermore, it helps people to enhance their interaction with the people of a different region of the country.
Moreover, it boosts the cultural connection between different parts of the country. Besides, it helps people to understand the different culture that exists in the country closely.
What is the Scheme?
In this scheme, one state of the country will connect to other states of the country on annual basis and both will promote the rich tradition of each other through events like song and dance festivals, food festivals, book festivals, tour and travel, literacy events and many more.
Most noteworthy, in the next year both the states, will connect to two other states for fulfilling the same aim. Furthermore, in this way, we can make sure that more people in the country will know about the tradition, culture, and practices of different states of the country.
Besides, this will enhance the understanding of the culture and bonding among the people also it will strengthen the unity of the country.
Moreover, the government of India decides to take inputs from the citizen of the country before implementing this scheme. For doing this, Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat contest was launched to get opinions and ideas from the public. In addition, in this way, the program can be made more effective in various magnitudes.
Also, the government opened a portal on which people can give their themes and sub-themes, ideas and suggestions in detail. Besides, citizens can make the following themes and sub-themes their base before writing and submitting original and views, suggestions, and innovative ideas. These themes are:
To identify the role of the central government and state government in implementing this program.
Also, identify a way y which civil society, public groups, government, and private sector can work together to fulfill the scheme.
Furthermore, specify how we can use modern communication tools such as social media.
Document some success stories of these types.
Also, how can Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat be made a people’s movement relative to a government program?
Prize of the Scheme
Also, the PM announced that the most innovative and original idea that explains all the details will be preferable and the person score is also higher.  Also, the first, second, and third prize was Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 75 Thousands, and Rs. 50 thousand respectively.
Furthermore, a certificate will also be provided with the prizes. Besides, the government does this to attract more participants to participate in the scheme.
To sum it up, the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat is a nice scheme that will help the people of the country to know and understand the different cultures and traditions of the country.
FAQs about Essay on Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat
Q.1 What is the launch date of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat and who launched it?
A.1 The launch date of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat is 31st October 2016 and it was launched by our Honorable Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi.
Q.2 Why 31st October is chosen to launch this scheme?
A.2 31st October is chosen because it is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel who is known as the iron man of India. Also, he is the man who united the nation against the Britishers.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp