500 Words Essay On Golden Temple
Golden Temple is a beautiful holy shrine located in India. Furthermore, one of the most noteworthy features of this temple is its golden colour which just mesmerizes anyone. This essay on Golden Temple will explore the religious significance and beauty of this shrine.
                                                                                                                                  Essay On Golden Temple
Religious Significance of Golden Temple
Sri Harmandir Sahib, also known as the “Golden Temple”, is a beautiful holy shrine located in Amritsar, Punjab, India. Furthermore, it is the holiest shrine in Sikhism and as such many Sikhs visit it on daily basis.  It is a major destination for Sikhs besides being a popular tourist attraction.
The creation of the “Golden Temple” and the Sikh religion took place during a time when the presence of the caste system in India was very strong. Due to the caste system, the low caste people had to suffer a lot.
During this time, the Mughal Empire came into power. One of the reasons for the creation of Sikhism was to fight off the Mughal Empire and foreign invaders. Another important reason for the origin of this religion was to give people equality irrespective of wealth, gender, caste, etc.
The site of the shrine is where Sage Valmiki is believed to have written the epic, Ramayana. Moreover, many believe that Rama and Sita spent their fourteen-year exile in Amritsar, which is now the epicentre of Sikhism.
Visitors, male or female, must cover their heads before entering the temple premises. Moreover, the Guru Granth Sahib is in the Temple during the day, while at night, it is in the Akal Takht or Eternal Throne.
The beauty of the Golden Temple
The most famous and attractive aspect of the Golden temple is its glittering golden dome and appearance. Furthermore, the temple is built on marble that is 67-ft square. Moreover, the temple is a two-storey structure.
Maharaja Ranjit Singh is responsible for the building of the upper half of the building with a gold leaf that is approximately 400 kg. Moreover, there are a number of famous temples surround the Golden Temple. Also, the construction of the pool, whose name is Amritsar or Amrit Sarovar, here was by the fourth Guru of Sikhs, Guru Ram Das.
The brilliant architecture of the temple gives it a unique look. Furthermore, the surrounding Amritsarovar pool enhances the beauty of the shrine. During the night time, the golden reflection of the temple in the pool is really a sight to behold.
To the south of the temple is a beautiful garden where one can easily attain peace of mind. The Central Sikh Museum, which is atop the Clock Tower, adds to the charm of the temple’s surroundings.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Conclusion of the Essay on Golden Temple
Golden Temple is one of the holiest religious sites of the Sikh community. Furthermore, this beautiful shrine, besides being a symbol of the Sikh religion, is also the pride of India. This temple continues to amaze people with its spectacular golden colour.
FAQs For Essay on Golden Temple
Question 1: What is so special about the Golden temple?
Answer 1: The Golden Temple is also called the “Darbar Sahib” or the “Harmandar Sahib”. Furthermore, this temple, whose location is in Amritsar, is one of the oldest worship places for the Indian Sikhs. Moreover, the temple’s entire top is made of pure gold, which significantly enhances the beauty of the temple.
Question 2:What is the worth of the Golden Temple?
Answer 2: More than 25,000 devotees come to Golden Temple for the purpose of darshan every day. Furthermore, the asset worth of this temple isRs 320 crores. Moreover, the throne, where the Baba is seated, is made of gold of 94 kg.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp