500 Words Essay On Punjab
India comprises of 28 states and one of them in the state of Punjab. It is located in the northwestern part of the country. The term ‘Punjab’ comes from the Persian language. Panj means five and ab mean river. Thus, it means the land of five rivers. The state gets this name because it comprises of five rivers. They are Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej. In the Essay on Punjab, we will go through the state in a detailed manner.
Introduction to Essay on Punjab
Punjab is the twelfth largest state by area in India. Moreover, it is the sixteenth largest state in terms of population. Jammu and Kashmir are situated to the North and Himachal Pradesh to the East.
Similarly, it has Haryana to the South and South-East and Rajasthan to the South-West. The state shares International Border with Pakistan to the West. It comprises of 22 districts.
When the political boundaries were redrawn in 1947, Punjab got divided between India and Pakistan. In spite of sharing the common cultural heritage, Punjabis are now either Indians or Pakistanis by nationality.
The most spoken language in here is Punjabi. Punjab is majorly an Agriculture based state. Additionally, it is the highest Wheat Producing State of India.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Culture in Punjab
The culture of Punjab is known to be one of the oldest and richest ones in the world. The diversity and uniqueness of the state are seen in the poetry, spirituality, education, artistry, music, cuisine, architecture, traditions of Punjab.
All this is pretty evident from the high spiritedness in the lifestyle of the people residing there. Punjabis have earned a reputation for being highly determined. The culture there exhibits a multi-hued heritage of ancient civilizations.
They look after a guest wholeheartedly as they consider guests to be a representative sent by God. Punjabis celebrate various religious and seasonal festivals like Lohri, Baisakhi, Basant Panchmi and many more.
Similarly, they also celebrate numerous anniversary celebrations to honour the Gurus and various saints. In order to express their happiness, the people dance at these festivals. The most popular genres are Bhangra, Jhumar and Sammi.
Most importantly, Giddha is a native tradition there which is basically a humorous song-and-dance genre which women perform. In order to get a clear view of the Punjabi mindset, one can go through Punjabi poetry. It is popular for having deep meanings, and beautiful use of words.
Throughout the world, many compilations of Punjabi poetry and literature is being translated into various languages. The revered ‘Guru Granth Sahib’ is one of the most famous Punjabi literature.
The traditional dress that Punjabi men wear is a Punjabi Kurta and Tehmat plus turban. However, Kurta and Pajama are becoming increasingly popular now. The women wear the traditional dress of a Punjabi Salwar Suit and Patiala Salwar.
Conclusion of the Essay on Punjab
All in all, the history and culture of the state is immensely rich. Throughout the world, Punjabis are famous for having extravagant weddings which are a reflection of the culture as it comprises of many ceremonies, traditions and a variety of foods. Most importantly, people all over the world admire the special and hospitable attitude of Punjabis as they carry their tradition and culture wherever they go.
FAQ on Essay On Punjab
Question 1: What is Punjab famous for?
Answer 1: Punjab is quite popular for its great interest in arts and crafts. In addition to that, the food is very famous. Similarly, the big fat Punjabi weddings have also earned quite a reputation worldwide.
Question 2: How many rivers does Punjab have?
Answer 2: Punjab has five rivers. They are Satluj, Ravi, Beas, Jhelum and Chenab.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp