500 Words Essay On Srinivasa Ramanujan
Srinivasa Ramanujan is one of the world’s greatest mathematicians of all time. Furthermore, this man, from a poor Indian family, rose to prominence in the field of mathematics. This essay on Srinivasa Ramanujan will throw more light on the life of this great personality.
                                                                                             Essay On Srinivasa Ramanujan
Early Life of Srinivasa Ramanujan
Ramanujan was born in Erode on December 22, 1887, in his grandmother’s house.  Furthermore, he went to primary school in Kumbakonamwas when he was five years old.  Moreover, he would attend several different primary schools before his entry took place to the Town High School in Kumbakonam in January 1898.
At the Town High School, Ramanujan proved himself as a talented student and did well in all of his school subjects. In 1900, he became involved with mathematics and began summing geometric and arithmetic series on his own.
In the Town High School, Ramanujan began reading a mathematics book called ‘Synopsis of Elementary Results in Pure Mathematics’. Furthermore, this book was by G. S. Carr.
With the help of this book, Ramanujan began to teach himself mathematics. Furthermore, the book contained theorems, formulas and short proofs. It also contained an index to papers on pure mathematics.
His Contribution to Mathematics
By 1904, Ramanujan’s focus was on deep research. Moreover, an investigation took place by him of the series (1/n). Moreover, calculation took place by him of Euler’s constant to 15 decimal places. This was entirely his own independent discovery.
Ramanujan gained a scholarship because of his outstanding performance in his studies. Consequently, he was a brilliant student at Kumbakonam’s Government College. Moreover, his fascination and passion for mathematics kept on growing.
In the spring of 1913, there was the presentation of Ramanujan’s work to British mathematicians by Narayana Iyer, Ramachandra Rao and E. W. Middlemast. Afterwards, M.J.M Hill did not made an offer to take Ramanujan on as a student, rather, he provided professional advice to him. With the help of friends, Ramanujan sent letters to leading mathematicians at Cambridge University and was ultimately selected.
Ramanujan spent a significant time period of five years at Cambridge. At Cambridge, collaboration took place of Ramanujan with Hardy and Littlewood. Most noteworthy, the publishing of his findings took place there.
Ramanujan received the honour of a Bachelor of Arts by Research degree in March 1916. This honour was due to his work on highly composite numbers, sections of the first part whose publishing had taken place the preceding year. Moreover, the paper’s size was more than fifty pages long.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Conclusion of the Essay on Srinivasa Ramanujan
Srinivasa Ramanujan is a man whose contributions to the field of mathematics are unmatchable. Furthermore, experts in mathematics worldwide all recognize his tremendous worth. Most noteworthy, Srinivasa Ramanujan made his country proud at a time when India was still under British occupation.
FAQs For Essay on Srinivasa Ramanujan
Question 1: What is Srinivasa Ramanujan famous for?
Answer 1: Srinivas Ramanujan is famous for his discoveries that have influenced several areas of mathematics. Furthermore, he is famous for his contributions to number theory and infinite series. Moreover, he came up with fascinating formulas that facilitate in the calculation of the digits of pi in unusual ways.
Question 2: What is the special quality of number 1729 discovered by Srinivasa Ramanujan?
Answer 2:  Srinivas Ramanujan discovered that the number 1729 had a special characteristic.  Furthermore, this quality is that the number 1729 is the only number whose expression can take place as the sum of the cubes of two different sets of numbers. Consequently, people call 1729 the magic number.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp