500 Words Essay On Eid
Eid is a religious festival which Muslims all over the world celebrate. It marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan. After 30 days of fasting, Eid is the first day after that month when Muslims do not fast and enjoy their day fully. Through an Essay on Eid, we will go through the festival and its celebration.
Eid Rituals
Muslims celebrate the religious festival of Eid every year. This day marks the end of Ramadan so they eat their heart out on this day. Prophet Muhammad started this tradition in Mecca first.
It is believed that the Prophet Muhammad reached Medina on this day. During Eid, people raise their spirits high and enjoy a lot. They start preparing for Eid before a month. The excitement begins at the onset of Ramadan.
Women start preparing their dresses, bangles, accessories beforehand. On the other hand, men prepare for their traditional kurta and pyjamas. When people sight the moon for Eid, they wish everyone ‘Chand Mubarak’ as it confirms the day of Eid.
Women and girls also apply Mehendi on their hand beautifully. Similarly, houses are painted and decorated as well. Before Eid, Muslims fast, give charity, offer prayers, and perform other good deeds during the holy month of Ramadan.
Thus, on the day of Eid, everyone enjoys their day. It is a ritual to prepare sweet vermicelli known as sewaiyyan. It is prepared with two different methods and is famous worldwide.
Similarly, other delicacies like kebabs, biryani, korma and more are prepared. It is for the guests to relish and have a hearty meal with their near and dear ones.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Eid Celebrations
When Eid arrives, everyone wakes up early in the morning. They take a bath and adorn their new attires. The women offer prayers at home while the men visit the mosque to offer prayers in the form of Namaaz.
Meanwhile, the food starts preparing at home. After the men are done offering prayers, they embrace each other and exchange Eid greetings. They wish Eid Mubarak to each other and hug three times alternately.
Then, people go over to their friends and relatives house to exchange greetings. The guests eat Sewaiyyan when they visit their dear ones. Another interesting part which youngsters love is Eidi.
Eidi is a gift they receive from the elders in the form of money. Thus, children enjoy receiving Eidi and then buy their favourite things from that money. Everyone enjoys a  lot on Eid and eat to their heart’s delight.
Conclusion of Essay On Eid
Being the festival of joy and celebration, Eid brings about a lot of happiness in everyone’s lives. It serves as a reward to people who fast the whole month and enjoy on Eid like it’s their feast. In other words, it is a reward for all the good deeds people have done during Ramadan. Thus, it spreads joy and brotherhood.
FAQ on Essay On Eid
Question 1: What is the importance of Eid?
Answer 1: Eid ul-Fitr is a very important festival for Muslims. It is vital in the Islamic calendar and Prophet Muhammad himself started it. People refer to it as ‘The Feast of Breaking the Fast’ and Muslims worldwide celebrate it to mark the end of Ramadan.
Question 2: How do Muslims celebrate Eid?
Answer 2: Eid traditionally start with prayers then a short sermon follows. In some countries, the prayers occur outside, while others are hosted in mosques or large halls. After the prayers, Muslims wish everyone around them a Happy Eid. After that, they visit their relatives and friends to enjoy each other and have a feast.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp