500 Words Essay On Memorable Day of My Life
We have different types of days in our lives, some are ordinary while some are special. There are some days that get etched in our memories forever. Likewise, I also have a memorable day of my life that is very dear to me. The memories of this day are engraved in my heart and will remain so forever.
My Birthday- Memorable Day of My Life
My tenth birthday is the most memorable day of my life. It is a day I can never forget and I consider it to be the best birthday yet. The day started just like any other normal day. However, as it kept progressing, a lot of exciting things began to happen.
I woke up very early on my birthday because I had to dress up in casual clothes for school. The day before, all my candies were ready that I would distribute in the classroom.
My mother prepared my favourite breakfast and gave me a big chocolate bar for lunch as well. I went to school and the whole class sang for me and congratulated me. It was the turn to distribute sweets.
My best friend and I went to all the teachers to distribute toffees and we had a great time there. Moreover, it was an incredible feeling. My friends were all singing for me and eager to come to my birthday party later in the evening.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My Birthday Party
The birthday at my school was memorable but the birthday party at my home made the day even more memorable. Also, my mother invited all my friends from school and the colony to the party.
I received so many presents and we played a lot of games. We played games like musical chairs, tag, egg-and-spoon races, and more. There were so many songs playing so everyone did a special dance too.
The highlight of my birthday party was definitely my huge birthday cake. As I love superheroes, my mother got the cake customized with the superhero theme. It was very tasty too and in my favourite flavour.
I spent a lot of time with my family and friends that day. Everyone liked the return gifts as well and went home with a big smile on their faces.
Conclusion of Essay on Memorable Day of My Life
Therefore, my tenth birthday is the most memorable day of my life. It has given me so many happy memories that will remain with me forever. That day makes me feel blessed and lucky to have all those things in my life.
FAQ on Essay on Memorable Day of My Life
Question 1: What is the meaning of a memorable day?
Answer 1:  When we say memorable, we refer to something that we cannot forget easily or something that left us excited. A memorable day is a day that one can recall easily as it is engraved in the memory.
Question 2: What can be an example of a memorable day?
Answer 2: Some people consider their birthday to be the most memorable day. While some consider it a family trip too. Similarly, some people may find their school picnic or fete to be the most memorable day.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp