500 Words Essay On Cyclone
The cyclones are irregular wind movements that are characterized by closed air circulation around a centre of low pressure. Furthermore, this essay on cyclone will throw more light on the unique phenomenon of cyclones. The main cause of cyclone closed air circulations are the atmospheric disturbances and the Earth’s rotation which imparts a whirling motion to these disturbances.
                                                                                                                     Essay on Cyclone
Understanding Cyclones
 A cyclone is a general term for a weather system in which the inward rotation of winds takes place around an area of low atmospheric pressure. Furthermore, the circulation pattern for large weather systems is in a counterclockwise direction in the Northern Hemisphere. Moreover, in the southern hemisphere, it is in a clockwise direction.
The major types of cyclones are tropical cyclones, extratropical cyclones and tornadoes. A tropical cyclone is a rotating low-pressure weather system that lacks fronts but has organized thunderstorms. Moreover, the formation of tropical cyclone takes place over warm ocean waters.
Extratropical cyclones are low-pressure systems whose formation takes place outside of the tropics in response to a westerly winds chronic instability. Since this instability is dependent on large horizontal temperature contrasts, fronts characterize extratropical cyclones. Moreover, fronts refer to concentrated regions of temperature change.
These storms populate the middle and high latitudes in the northern hemisphere. Consequently, experts call them mid-latitude cyclones. The storm is called a “bomb cyclone” in case the barometric pressure of a mid-latitude cyclone falls by at least 1 millibar per hour for a period of 24 hours.
A tornado refers to a rapidly rotating column of air whose characterization is by a downward extension from a thunderstorm to the ground. Furthermore, the most violent tornadoes can cause tremendous destruction with massive wind speeds that can go as high as 300 mph.
The formation of tornadoes takes place in regions of the atmosphere that are characterized by abundant moist and warm air near the surface with drier air above. Moreover, a change takes place in wind direction and speed with height above the ground.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Significance of Cyclone
The cyclones level down inequalities of wind movement and pressure over the globe. Furthermore, they play a crucial role in the complex heat exchange process that takes place between various latitudinal zones. Moreover, cyclones have an effect on the phenomenon of precipitation as they facilitate the lifting up of the moist air from oceans and taking it into the surrounding landmasses.
The cyclonic wind movements happen to be anti-clockwise in the northern hemisphere while in the southern hemisphere they are clockwise. Furthermore, the characterization of the cyclones takes place by the existence of an anticyclone between two cyclones. Moreover, the cyclones can be either tropical or temperate/extra-tropical depending on their area of origin and principal tracks followed.
Conclusion of the Essay on Cyclone
Cyclone is a weather phenomenon that always has had a tremendous impact on humanity since time immemorial. Furthermore, the cyclone can certainly be dangerous for humanity as they can bring widespread destruction to humanity. Most noteworthy, it is a weather system that we would just have to live with and cope with.
FAQs For Essay on Cyclone
Question 1: What are some of the effects of cyclones?
Answer 1: Cyclones can bring high winds and heavy rain. In extreme condition, the speed of winds may go over 240 km per hour. These strong winds may cause a devastating phenomenon known as the storm surge, along with destructive torrential rain.
Question 2: What are the various types of cyclones?
Answer 2: The various types of cyclones are tropical cyclones, hurricanes, typhoons, tornadoes, mesocyclones, and mid-latitude or extratropical cyclones.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp