500 Words Essay on  Solar Energy
Solar energy refers to the energy which the sunlight contains in the form of photons. It is not possible for life on earth to exist without solar energy.  All kinds of microorganisms and single-celled organisms came into existence with solar energy’s help. Plants have been using this energy ever since the beginning. Thus, through essay on solar energy, we will study about it in detail.
Methods of Using Solar Energy
We can trap solar energy in a lot of ways. One of the most efficient ways to do this is by using solar power plants. The design of these power plants is such that it helps to produce electricity on a larger level.
Other appliances which work on solar energy are solar cookers, solar heaters and solar cells. The solar cookers are said to be the most innovative methods of cooking nowadays. It is a great alternative to conventional fuels like gas, kerosene and wood.
These cookers are eco-friendly and also inexpensive means of cooking. Further, we have solar heaters which help to heat water using solar energy. Thus, it does not require electricity to heat water.
Finally, we have solar cells. They operate by directly converting solar light into electricity. In areas where supply from power grid is less available, solar cells are quite popular.
Similarly, a lot of calculators, wrist watch and other similar systems operate with this technology. The electricity which solar panels produce also stores in rechargeable solar batteries.
Advantages of Solar Energy
A major advantage of solar energy is that it is a renewable source. Thus, it will be available to use as long as the Sun is present. In other words, for another 5 billion years. As a result, everyone can use it abundantly.
Further, using solar energy can assist in reducing our electricity bills. When we use this energy, we will become less dependent on non-renewable sources of energy like petroleum and coal.
Moreover, we can utilize solar energy for a lot of purposes. One can produce electricity as well as heat. We use this energy in regions where we won’t require an electricity grid. Another advantage is that it is a clean fuel.
Using this energy will not result in pollution and thus, it won’t harm the environment. As a result, air pollution will significantly decrease. Both the government and individuals must try to promote and incorporate this energy in our daily lives.
This way, it can become the future of our world. It will make the world a greener and cleaner place as well. So, we must all try to switch to solar energy to make the world a better place.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Conclusion of Essay On Solar Energy
Solar energy is the future of our upcoming generation. It is safe and a greener and economical alternative. Moreover, it can be replenished so it serves as a renewable source of energy. As a result, it does not cause pollution. Thus, we must try to use solar energy more and more to save our planet earth.
FAQ on Essay On Solar Energy
Question 1: What is the importance of solar energy?
Answer 1: Solar energy is the power from the sun. It is a vast, inexhaustible, and clean resource. We can use this energy directly to heat and light homes and businesses. Similarly, we can also produce electricity, and heat water, solar cooling, and a variety of other commercial and industrial uses.
Question 2: Is solar energy renewable energy?
Answer 2: Yes, solar energy is a renewable energy. Thus, we can use it as much as we want and benefit from it in ways more than one.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp