500+ Words Essay on  Coronavirus and Coronavirus Symptoms
Coronavirus refers to a virus that leads to respiratory illness in human beings. It derives its name ‘corona’ from having crown-like spikes on its surface. Some examples of this disease that causes humans to fall ill are SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), and more. China reported the new strain of this virus, COVID-19 in 2019. Ever since the virus went on to spread in all the continents over the world except for Antarctica. Let us learn about Coronavirus and Coronavirus symptoms through this essay.
Origin of Coronavirus and Coronavirus Symptoms
The city of Wuhan in China was the one that first reported the case of COVID-19 in December 2019. Further, the WHO (World Health Organization) declared the outbreak of this disease as a pandemic in March 2020.
Due to this outbreak, a lot of countries all over the world announced a nationwide lockdown. This was done as a preventive measure against the pandemic. Ultimately, it limited the movement of billions of people all over the world.
Consequently, all commercial establishments including schools and colleges were shut down. In addition to this, international and intra-state travel also saw a ban. Similarly, many of the countries suspended tourist visas to avoid the outbreak of this disease.
In countries like India, people from underprivileged backgrounds had to suffer greatly. Even to date, many have not been able to earn a proper livelihood. Shortage of food, loss of income, and more have become a common phenomenon for some.
Similarly, industries like pharmaceuticals, tourism, the power sector, and more are also suffering losses after the Coronavirus outbreak. All in all, it has an impact on the global economy as well as our daily lives.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Symptoms of Coronavirus
Coronavirus and coronavirus symptoms are something everyone is looking for. As per the CDC, you may have coronavirus if you are experiencing symptoms like:
Fever
Cough
Chills
Difficulty in breathing
Fatigue
Headache
Body ache
New loss of smell or taste
Congestion
Diarrhea
Sore throat
Runny nose
Other than that, there are additional symptoms that may possibly happen to anyone. It depends on the individual. Further, the symptoms will start appearing between two to fourteen days after you have been exposed to the virus.
In children, symptoms can be milder when we compare them to adults. On the other hand, people who have serious underlying conditions such as heart disease or diabetes and older people will be at a greater risk of complications.
One must immediately get medical attention if one is having trouble breathing. Other warning signs include persistent pain or pressure in the chest. Further, if one cannot seem to wake up from their sleep or their lips or face start to turn blue, they must get medical attention instantly.
With that being said, if a person is experiencing these symptoms, they must contact a medical professional. They will be able to better help the individual with their particular case.
Conclusion
Therefore, governments and health organizations all over the world are constantly working to limit the outbreak of coronavirus and coronavirus symptoms. Similarly, our healthcare professionals are facing various difficulties to protect others’ lives. We must work together as one and be responsible on our part to safeguard our lives as well as others.
FAQ on Essay on Coronavirus and Coronavirus Symptoms
Question 1: What was the origin of Coronavirus?
Answer 1: The city of Wuhan in China was the one that first reported the case of COVID-19 in December 2019. Further, the WHO (World Health Organization) declared the outbreak of this disease as a pandemic in March 2020.
Question 2: What are Coronavirus and coronavirus symptoms?
Answer 2: The symptoms of Coronavirus include fever, chills, cough, fatigue, headache, runny throat, difficulty in breathing, congestion, body ache, and more
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp