500 Words Essay On Every Cloud has a Silver Lining
“Every cloud has a silver lining” is one of the most positive proverbs in the English language. Furthermore, it is a proverb that instantly fills one up with immense hope and self confidence. This every cloud has a silver lining essay will discover this topic in more detail.
Hope in Troubled Times
A common sight which everyone must have witnessed is that of dark clouds covering the sky and the sun not being visible. However, such an occurrence is only temporary. After some time, the clouds would disappear or move away and the sunlight would again brighten up the sky.
The troubles in our lives are very much like those dark clouds. Our lives are characterized by troubles, pain, misery, disaster, calamities, and tragedies. However, just like the dark clouds, one must understand that these problems are only temporary and that better times would soon come.
The silver lining as mentioned in the proverb refers to the good, happy, or pleasant times. As one would notice, the entire proverb is about hope.
If an individual has hope even in the darkest of times, then indeed things will ultimately be in that individual’s favour. However, if the individual has a negative approach towards life, then no amount of blessings in his life will ever make him satisfied and he will end up in problems.
As one can see, people in this world have a choice. Furthermore, people can either choose to live in darkness or they can lead a confident, positive, and fruitful life. In the end, it all comes down to the path one chooses in life.
There are some individuals who know how to make the best of their lives. In contrast, there are some who would instantly be demoralized and lose all hope in the presence of the slightest trouble. Moreover, the attitude of people towards the troubles they face is a determinant of their success in life.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
An Important Lesson
There are some individuals who very well know the art of boldly facing their misfortune. Furthermore, such individuals, through determination, are able to reach for that glory that lies behind those dark hovering clouds. Most noteworthy, the lives of such individuals turn to be an inspiration for others.
Take the case of Nelson Mandela, the famous South African political leader. This man served a prison sentence of twenty-seven years, a duration that is enough to break even strong-spirited people. Despite that, Mandela bravely faced his misfortune and became a worldwide inspiration.
Many great poets and writers have addressed the same idea that the proverb conveys. The idea is that when misery or misfortune strikes, always remember that good times are not that far to arrive.
Conclusion For Every Cloud Has a Silver Lining Essay
“Every cloud has a silver lining” is a proverb that can bring a smile to anyone’s face. Furthermore, this proverb represents humanity’s reliance and longing for hope. Most noteworthy, for a person to stop having hope is similar to stop living.
FAQs For Every Cloud Has a Silver Lining Essay
Question 1: Explain how hope can benefit a person?
Answer 1: Hope fills a person with positive energy. Furthermore, a hopeful person would have patience even in the darkest of times with the belief that things will turn out to be better in future. Moreover, a person without hope is likely to feel depressed and sad.
Question 2: What is the significance of cloud in the proverb “every cloud has a silver lining”?
Answer 2: The cloud in the proverb “every cloud has a silver lining” represent the troubles, pain, misery, calamities, and tragedies that may come in the life of any person. However, just like every cloud has silver lining, similarly, after every problem, things do get better.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp