500+ Words Essay on Female Foeticide
Female foeticide is the aborting of a girl fetus in the womb before its complete growth. Why? This is because that it is female? Female foeticide has become a disgraceful and shocking truth of our nation. In India a strong fondness for sons over daughter. People desire smaller families with comparatively greater sons by abuse medical technologies. It is one of the main motives for declining sex ratio.
What is Female Foeticide?
Female foeticide is the procedure of abortion to terminate female fetus from the womb of the mother before taking birth after the sex recognition tests like an ultrasound scan. Female foeticide and even any sex recognition test is illegal in India. It is the shame for the parents who are despairing for a baby boy as well as doctors doing abortions especially for this.
Causes of Female Foeticide:
Female foeticide has been in practice for periods especially for the families who have a preference only male child. Several religious, social, financial and emotional are the reason for female foeticide. Therefore the time has been changed now much however, many reasons and beliefs are ongoing in some families. Some main reasons for female foeticide are:
Generally, parents don’t want a girl baby because they have to give a big amount as a dowry at daughter’s marriage.
There is a faith that girls are always consumer and boys are the only producer. Thus Parents understand that son will earn money for the whole life and care their parents however girls will get married a day and will have a separate family.
There is a belief that the son will carry the name of the family in future however the girl has to carry the husband’s family.
This is a prestige issue in society for parent and grandparent to have a boy baby in the family besides having a daughter.
There is a stress on the new bride of the family to give birth to a male child so she is enforced to go for sex recognition and abort if girl baby.
Illiteracy, insecurity, and poverty of people in society are also major reasons for girl baby burden.
Science and Technological advancement and utilities have made this very easy task for parents.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Impact of female foeticide on the sex ratio:
Sex ratio denotes the ratio of females to males in a specific region. Many practices like female foeticide and female infanticide (killing a baby girl after her birth) have had a contrary influence on the sex ratio. Thus it rises and promotes many social evils.
As per the decennial Indian census, Sex Ratio of India is 107.48. It means 107.48 males per 100 females in 2019. Therefore India has 930 females per 1000 males. So, India has 48.20% female population compare to 51.80% male population.
Effective Measures to Control:
As we all know that female foeticide is a crime and social evil for the future of women. Hence we should notice the causes for female foeticide in Indian society. Female infanticide or female feticide is primarily because of sex determination. Some measures are:
Law must be implemented and one should be surely punished if found guilty for this unkind exercise.
Permanent cancellation of license should be done if it is going on in medical practice.
Marketing of medical tools specifically for illegal sex determination and abortion should be a bane.
Parents must be fined who want to kill their girl baby.
Campaigns and seminars should be regularly held to aware of young couples.
Women should be aware so that they can be more attentive to their rights.
Conclusion:
Forthcoming is the name of your girl child, past is the name of your mother. This is the reality that NO PRESENT, NO PAST, NO FUTURE WITHOUT GIRL CHILD. Female foeticide is suicide. So, save the girl child and secure the future. There will be the dangerous results of the female feticide. Demography reports warn India that in the next twenty years there will be a scarcity of brides in the marriage market mostly because of the adverse sex ratio.
400 Words Essay on Female Foeticide
Female foeticide refers to a practice which removes the female fetus after 18 weeks of growth in the uterus. This practice happens due to the child’s sex being female. In other words, it is a very regressive and shameful practice which still takes place in many parts of the world.
Moreover, this practice just goes to show the importance of women in society. People do not consider girls to be equal and only inferior to boys, which is why they kill a girl before being born. Furthermore, there are various causes of this practice which needs to be identified and resolved.
Causes of Female Foeticide
Female foeticide is completely unethical and illegal. This practice has roots in ancient history which people are following till date. There are various cultural and socio-economic reasons behind it. Most importantly, the sexism prevalent in the world is one of the main reasons for this practice. People prefer a boy over a girl even today. The reason behind this is the regressive thinking that the son will earn while the girls will only consume.
Moreover, another social evil of dowry makes people commit this crime. The old-age custom of dowry burdens the parents from the day a girl is born. This poses a big challenge for the parents who have to stress about her marriage and dowry all their lives. Furthermore, the low status given to women in this male-dominated world is another cause of female foeticide.
Above all, we see how parents only consider their children to carry forward their legacy. This totally neglects the girl’s importance and forces her to only handle the household work. Similarly, the technological advancements in today’s world have made it easier for anyone to get an abortion done and determine the sex of the child.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Ways to Prevent Female Foeticide
It is very clear by now that female foeticide is a crime and a great social disaster. After identifying the reasons behind this unethical practice, we must strive to eradicate it completely. Firstly, sex determination is a great cause for this crime. Thus, the determination of the sex of the fetus must be made illegal. Moreover, stringent measures must be taken to ensure they are followed correctly.
Furthermore, the government must ban the easy availability of the medical equipment one needs for sex determination and abortion. They must jail those found guilty of practicing this crime must and government must terminate their license. Moreover, the parents who aim to do it must be penalized heavily. Above all, people must be made aware of this unethical practice at all levels. We must empower our young women and girls to practice their right diligently.
In conclusion, we must respect the daughters of our country. Also, they must be given the same priority as their sons. Girls do not have access to education, healthcare and more as the boys do. This is why parents consider them a burden. Therefore, all these facilities must be made accessible to them for the same. This will help them create an identity of their own.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp