500 Words Essay On First Day of School
The first day of schools is not easy for anyone. Even if you are not shy, it is still tough for the first day. When people say the first day of school, the mind usually goes back to our first day in class nursery. But, that is not the same as everyone. When a person transfers to a new school, their first day of the new school is also a new experience. Thus, the first day of school essay will tell us about it in detail.
A Thrilling Experience
The first day of school is a thrilling experience. You are entering an unknown territory and you don’t know anyone there. While it might scare some, for some it is quite exciting. You get to learn about new things on the first day.
Moreover, the first day gives us a new perspective on things. Things we don’t often notice, we might notice on our first day of school. It is because we are very aware of our surroundings on our first day.
Nonetheless, it is an exciting experience for all. If you are a four-year-old joining school for the first time or a senior going to a new school for the first time, everyone usually remembers their experience and cherish it forever.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My First Day of School as a Senior
My father has a government job which requires him to shift a lot. Even though we stayed in the same place, my father moved from one place to another. After being in the same school for 8 years, my father finally got a permanent posting.
This meant that we had to move to a new city and join a new school. I was very nervous to move to a new city and even more to join a new school. My present school has all my friends whom I cannot stay apart from.
Nonetheless, when we moved to the new city, I became friends with my neighbour. On my first day of school, I joined the fifth standard. The teacher introduced me and I went to sit in my seat.
Many children sitting beside me started talking to me. They were being friendly and cordial. Thus, all my nervousness went away. Upon talking with them, I realized that they are very welcoming.
Some of them also shared their lunch with me. My neighbour also came to meet me during the recess and we played on the swings. On the first day, only the feeling of being an outsider went away. I enjoyed my first day a lot and came back home smiling.
Conclusion of the First Day of School Essay
Thus, the first day of schools is not easy. It is equally difficult for little children as well as teenagers. It is not easy to enter a place with unknown faces, but it is definitely not impossible. We all need to come out of comfort zone someday, so it serves as a great way of reminding us of this fact.
FAQ of First Day of School Essay
Question 1: Is the first day of school memorable?
Answer 1: The first day of school whether for the first time or in a new school is memorable for everyone. It is a life-changing day for students as they enter into an unknown place without the support of anyone, all by themselves.
Question 2: Does the first day of school determine the rest of our school days?
Answer 2: Not at all. Our first day can be good or bad, but it does not determine anything. There are good days and bad days in life; it is upon us to take the journey forward happily without letting anything discourage us.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp