500+ Words Essay on Freedom Fighters
Freedom fighters were people who sacrificed their lives selflessly for the freedom of their country. Every country has its fair share of freedom fighters. People look up to them in terms of patriotism and love for one’s country. They are considered the epitome of patriotic people.
Freedom fighters made sacrifices which one cannot even imagine of doing for their loved ones, leave alone the country. The amount of pain, hardships, and opposite they have endured cannot be put into words. The generations after them will always be indebted to them for their selfless sacrifices and hard work.
Importance of Freedom Fighters
One cannot emphasize enough on the importance of freedom fighters. After all, they are the ones because of whom we celebrate Independence Day. No matter how small a role they played, they are very much significant today as they were in those times. Moreover, they revolted against the colonizers so as to stand up for the country and its people.
Furthermore, most of the freedom fighters even went to war to safeguard the freedom of their people. It did not matter that they had no training; they did it for the pure intention of making their country free. Most of the freedom fighters sacrificed their lives in the war for independence.
Most importantly, freedom fighters inspired and motivated others to fight injustice. They are the pillars behind the freedom movement. They made people aware of their rights and their power. It is all because of the freedom fighters that we prospered into a free country free from any kind of colonizers or injustice.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My Favourite Freedom Fighters
India has seen a lot of freedom fighters fight for their motherland. While I respect each and every one of them equally, I have a few personal favorites who inspired me to work for my country. Firstly, I completely adore the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi. I like him because he chose the path of non-violence and won freedom without any weapons, only the truth and peace.
Secondly, Rani Lakshmi Bai was a great freedom fighter. I have learned so many things from this empowering woman. She fought for the country despite so many hardships. A mother never gave up her country because of her child, instead took him to the battlefield to fight against injustice. Moreover, she was so inspiring in numerous ways.
Next, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose comes in my list. He led the Indian National Army to show the power of India to the British. His famous line remains to be ‘give me your blood and I will give you freedom.’
Finally, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was also one of the greatest leaders. Despite being from a rich family, he gave up the easy life and fought for India’s freedom. He was imprisoned a number of times but that did not stop him from fighting against injustice. He was a great inspiration to many.
In short, freedom fighters are what made our country what it is today. However, we see nowadays people are fighting for everything they stood against. We must come together to not let communal hatred come between and live up to the Indian dream of these freedom fighters. Only then will we honor their sacrifices and memory.
FAQ on Freedom Fighters
Q.1 Why were freedom fighters important?
A.1 Freedom fighters made our country independent. They gave up their lives so we could have a bright future free from colonization.
Q.2 Name some of the Indian freedom fighters.
A.2 Some of the famous India freedom fighters were Mahatma Gandhi, Rani Lakshmi Bai, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, and Jawaharlal Nehru.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp