500+ Words Essay on Gardening
Garden is a piece of property near or around our house where various trees, flowers, fruits, vegetables and so on are cultivated. There are many types of garden, including flower garden, fruit garden, vegetable garden, botanical garden, and medicinal herb garden. People like growing fruit or vegetable gardens near their homes. These gardens are known as gardens of the kitchen. Some of the colleges also have their own gardens to work in for their learners. Thus, the Essay on gardening is an insight into some of the best practices used for gardening.
Gardening is a good and enjoyable pastime. Each garden is surrounded by a fence. Usually, fences are made of wood or bamboo. The green fence is raised around the garden sometimes.
The garden is split into various parts. Each section is split into beds. Every bed is surrounded by an earthen uplift. For flower crops, fruit trees, vegetables, and medicinal herbs, some parts are intended.
In distinct seasons, people raise distinct types of vegetables. Pumpkin, gourd, bitter gourd, garlic, tomato, snake gourd, brinjal, bean, pea, cabbage, turnip, cauliflower, radish, spinach, ladyfinger, etc. It is also possible to grow fruit trees such as apples, chickoos, plums, etc. In addition, it is possible to grow various types of shrubs, creepers, and trees in a garden. Everything comes under the kingdom of plants.
Read 500 Words Essay on Trees here
People are spotting gardens, rooting grasses, preparing beds, sowing seeds, planting trees and watering crops on frequent bases. By working both morning and evening, they keep the garden neat and tidy.
The manure the gardens as well. It is very essential to take care of insect crops in the garden. For the crops, insects can be dangerous. On the crops, flowers, and fruits, they lay eggs. Sprinkling insecticides can destroy these eggs. In the soil, lime is occasionally blended to kill the germs and bacteria in it. So the soil’s fertility improves.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of Gardening
While many crops grow in the wild, in their homes or yards, individuals also grow and grow certain crops, bushes, and trees. This activity is referred to as gardening. Although it may seem to some as a hobby, the reality is that gardening is truly quite useful and therefore essential to us.
Gardening is an activity that is quite physical. It includes weeding, plant watering, mulching, trellising, and harvesting–all of which involve the gardener’s physical labor. It, therefore, becomes a great complement to your workout routine.
Gardening is a very practical activity as well. You can develop your own vegetables and fruits so that you have good food on the table.
Aesthetic gardening appeals to the need for beauty in human beings. Ornamental gardening is happy with beauty to our side. Furthermore, flowers are a component of most occasions like births, anniversaries, weddings, birthdays and funerals.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp