500+ Words Essay on Generation Gap
We all know that humans have been inhabiting this earth for a long time. Over time, times have changed and humans have evolved. The world became developed and so did mankind. Each generation has seen new changes and things that the older generations have not.
This is exactly what creates a generation gap. It is how one generation differs from the other. It is quite natural for a generation gap to exist. Why? Because it shows that mankind is evolving and changing for the better. However, sometimes this gap impacts our lives wrongly.
Generation Gap – Impact on Relations
It is always nice to have fresh ideas and points of view. It is a clear indication of how we are advancing and developing at a great level. However, when this clash of ideas and viewpoints becomes gets too much, it becomes a matter of worry.
The most common result of this clash is distanced relations. Generally, a generation gap is mostly seen between parents and kids. It shows that parents fail to understand their kids and vice versa. The parents usually follow the traditions and norms.
Likewise, they expect their children to conform to the societal norms as they have. But the kids are of the modern age with a broad outlook. They refuse to accept these traditional ways.
This is one of the main reasons why the conflict begins. They do not reach a solution and thus distance themselves because of misunderstandings. This is a mistake at both ends. The parents must try not to impose the same expectations which their parents had from them. Similarly, the kids must not outright wrong their parents but try to understand where this is coming from.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
How to Bridge the Gap?
As we all know there is no stronger bond than that of a kid and his parents. Thus, we must understand its importance and handle it with care. Nowadays, it is very disheartening to see that these precious relationships are getting strained due to a generation gap.
In other words, just because there is a difference of opinion does not mean that people give up on relationships. It is high time both parties understand that no one is completely right or wrong. They can both reach a middle ground and sort it out. Acceptance and understanding are the keys here.
Moreover, there must be a friendly relationship between parents and kids. The kids must be given the space to express themselves freely without the fear of traditional thinking. Likewise, the children must trust their parents enough to indulge them in their lives.
Most importantly, there is a need to set boundaries between the two parties. Instead of debating, it is better to understand the point of view. This will result in great communication and both will be happy irrespective of the generation gap.
In short, a generation gap happens due to the constant changes in the world. While we may not stop the evolvement of the world, we can strengthen the bond and bridge the gap it creates. Each person must respect everyone for their individuality rather than fitting them into a box they believe to be right.
FAQs on Generation Gap
Q.1 How does the generation gap impact relationships?
A.1 The generation gap impacts relationships severely. It creates a difference between them and also a lack of understanding. All this results in strained relationships.
Q.2 How can we bridge the generation gap?
A.2 We can bridge the generation gap by creating a safe environment for people to express themselves. We must understand and accept each other for what they are rather than fitting them in a box.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp