500+ Words Essay on Good Manners
Since our childhood, we were always taught good manners. Our parents always insisted us to enlist good manners. Moreover, they always tried their best to teach us everything to become a good human being. Good manners are important for a person to live in a society. Furthermore, if a person wants to be liked by everyone then he must know how to behave. The difference between an educated person and an illiterate person is not of knowledge. But the way he speaks and acts. So the presence of good manners can make a person gentleman. Yet if a person is lacking it then even the most educated person will not be a good man.
Good manners hold great importance in a persons’ life. In order to become successful in life, one should always take care of how he interacts. Various businessman and successful people are achieving heights. This is because of their good manners and skills. If a boss does not speak properly with his employees then they will leave the job. Therefore good manners are essential in any field of life.
Our parents have always taught us to respect our elders. Because if we won’t respect our elders then our Youngers will not respect us. Respect also comes in good manners. Respect is one of the most essential needs of a person. Moreover, many people work really hard to earn respect. Since I was a child I have always heard from my parents that respect is the utmost thing you should aim for. Therefore everyone deserves respect in life.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Division of Good manners can be done under two categories:-
Good Manners at School
In-School, a child should respect his teachers and seniors. Furthermore, he should listen to what the teacher is saying because they are his mentors. Moreover, the child should be well dressed and hygienic.
Furthermore, a child should always carry a handkerchief, in order to maintain hygiene. The child should always be punctual. So that he may not waste others time. Also, you should never take others’ things without permission.
Since there are many children studying in the school, you should not push each other while standing in a queue.
Good Manners at Home
Most importantly, you should respect your parents at home. Always wish them “GOOD MORNING” and “GOOD NIGHT” at the beginning and end of the day. Moreover, you should brush your teeth and take a bath daily. So, you may maintain proper hygiene.
Wash hands before eating your meal, chew your food well and eat with mouth closed. Also, you should take permission from parents before going out of the house Above all, you make use of the words ‘Thank you’ and ‘Please’ in your speech.
Good manners at work for elders. You should respect your Co-workers. Also, you should try to complete yours on time.
Furthermore, you should be punctual in the office. Do not gossip while working and do not distract others.
Moreover, you should not interfere in others’ work. Consider your junior employees and help them if they have any problem. At last, do not fall into corruption and do your work with honesty and diligence.
FAQs on the Good Manners
Q1.Why is the importance of good manners?
A1. In order to live in a society, one should have good manners. This maintains a peaceful environment and people will like you as a human being.
Q2.How can we enlist good manners in us?
A2. We can enlist good manners by reading books and learning from it. Moreover, you can also join personality development classes. They teach all the good manners and make you a better person.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp