500+ Words Essay on Good Mother
It is a common saying that God could not be present everywhere so he made a mother. The saying is also true as the status of the mother is equivalent to God. She is the one who gave us life and made us stand on our own feet. My mother is the idol of selfless love and ever-ready for me despite being tired. My mother is the one on whom I can completely rely on. She is the one who will never say no to our wishes. She never lets us feel the difference in love and showers any time. My mother is like the sun that chases out all darkness and gives the light of happiness and love upon me.
Definition of a Good Mother
It is difficult to define a good mother in a few words. However, in very simple words I can say that a good mother is the one for whom her child is her world. There are many qualities which I see in her which makes her the world’s best mother. She loves me strongly and deeply without any condition. Apart from all this she also takes care of me with great responsibility.
Thus she is the statue of forgiveness. She forgives each and every mistake of mine and also ensures that I realize my mistakes with responsibility. A good mother does every effort to make her child one in a million. She sacrifices every comfort of her life for the comfort of her child.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Qualities of a Good Mother
There are certain natural qualities which already get inherited into a woman on acquiring motherhood.  Some qualities of a mother are as follows:
Responsible
Acquiring motherhood comes with great responsibility. The responsibility of taking care of the child before and after birth is one of the most necessary qualities of a mother. She is the one who takes care of the child since birth.
Selfless Love
A mother will always shower her children with her love without anything in return. She always loves her children selflessly in spite of their mischiefs. Her love for her children always remains the same irrespective of her child’s age.
Supportive
A mother should always be supportive of their children. She should always stand strong beside her children in all of their ups and downs. So, she should be always there for supporting her children in their decisions and interests.
Patient
This is the quality which every mother should inculcate on acquiring motherhood. The high amount of patience is a must for a mother with a growing child especially.
Empathetic
A mother should always be empathetic for her kids. As her care is the most need for a child.
Why My Mother is Important in My Life?
Her importance could be easily understood from the fact that the first word uttered from the mouth of a child is ‘mama’. She is the source of my life and the reason for my existence. My mother is the backbone of my family. Because she binds the whole family with unity.
She gives me the confidence to face the world and motivate me to achieve success in life. She is the only one who will never have any ill thoughts against me. A good mother acts like a sculptor who molds her children into beautiful sculptures.
Mother: The First Teacher and Guide of a Child
She is the one who started my schooling at home and became my first and lovely teacher. She taught me behavioral lessons and true philosophies of life. She gave birth to me after bearing lots of pain and struggle but in turn, she is always giving me love. In fact, there is no love in this world which is so lasting, strong, selfless, pure and devoted. She is the one who brings lights in my life by removing all the darkness.
Conclusion
My mother is the holy creation of God and a source of providing life to me. She is a sacred statue of selfless love, sacrifices, forgiveness, and patience. She is the guiding soul who helps me always to progress on the right path and achieve success in my life.
I, as her child, will always do my best to make her happy and comfortable all the time especially when she becomes old. It is our responsibility to bestow her with the same amount of love, care and understanding as she did with us when we were young.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp