500+ Words Essay on Grandparents
Grandparents are blessings from God who are irreplaceable. They are angels in disguise who are always looking over their kids and grandkids. As the times are evolving, people are losing touch of their tradition. Likewise, people are not realizing the importance of Grandparents. We see how they are mistreating them. While this happens in some cases, in most cases people love their grandparents.
You ask a kid about who pampers them the most, most of them will answer saying their grandparents. Similarly, for grandparents, they are adored by their grandkids. They love us unconditionally and pamper us endlessly. However, they also correct our mistakes and scold us when necessary. Thus, we see how grandparents are great blessings not everyone is fortunate enough to have.
Grandparents are True Blessings
Grandparents are truly a blessing in our lives. They are the ones who have made our parents the way they are. It is because of their upbringing that our parents love us immensely and care for us the same way our grandparents did when they were children. Moreover, grandparents are your support system. They are sometimes the only people who support you even if our parents don’t.
Read 500 Words Essay on Mother
Most importantly, grandparents are true believers in our skills and talent. They are the ones who push us to pursue our dreams when the world puts us down. Even though some of our dreams may not make sense to them, nonetheless, they still believe in us. They boost our confidence and allow us to perform better.
Furthermore, grandparents are one of the main reasons why we feel safe and protected. We know even if we don’t live with our grandparents, they are always praying for us. They are looking out for us. Almost everyone’s safe place is their grandparent’s home. We have a sense of calm and composure knowing we can always go to our grandparent’s place if the need arises.
Thus, we see how grandparents are blessings in disguise. They help in us so many ways, some of which we may not even realize. The ones who are lucky enough to have grandparents surely know their value.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My Grandparents
I was lucky enough to grow up in my grandparent’s house. Our family lived with my grandparents since I was little. As my paternal grandfather passed away when I was very young, I only remember a few memories of him. One thing I surely remember is he used to brush his teeth twice daily without fail. I adopted this habit and ever since I have been doing the same.
My maternal grandparents have been my true systems of support. I am lucky enough to have grown up around such inspirational people. My grandfather was a principal of a college, so he always emphasized the importance of education. He helped us with our homework when my parents were not available. I spent my vacations at their place as I enjoyed living with them.
Similarly, my grandparents always embraced me with open arms. They used to wait for every holiday for our arrival. My grandmother made delicious pickles and meals which we relished greatly. She taught me a few recipes too and tips and tricks that are very useful even today. I simply adore my grandparents for instilling good values in me and my parents and for giving us a safe space to grow up in.
The FAQ on Essay on Grandparents
Q.1 Why are grandparents a true blessing?
A.1 Grandparents are like angels in disguise. They always watch out for us and pray for us even when we don’t know it. They provide us a safe space on which we can always count on.
Q.2 Why should one value their grandparents?
A.2 Grandparents are a blessing which not everyone is lucky enough to have. Thus, we must value them and respect them for all they have done for us and our parents.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp