500+ Words Essay on Happiness
Happiness is something which we can’t describe in words it can only be felt from someone’s expression of a smile. Likewise, happiness is a signal or identification of good and prosperous life. Happiness is very simple to feel and difficult to describe. Moreover, happiness comes from within and no one can steal your happiness.
Can Money Buy You Happiness?
Every day we see and meet people who look happy from the outside but deep down they are broken and are sad from the inside. For many people, money is the main cause of happiness or grief. But this is not right. Money can buy you food, luxurious house, healthy lifestyle servants, and many more facilities but money can’t buy you happiness.
And if money can buy happiness then the rich would be the happiest person on the earth. But, we see a contrary image of the rich as they are sad, fearful, anxious, stressed, and suffering from various problems.
In addition, they have money still they lack in social life with their family especially their wives and this is the main cause of divorce among them.
Also, due to money, they feel insecurity that everyone is after their money so to safeguard their money and them they hire security. While the condition of the poor is just the opposite. They do not have money but they are happy with and stress-free from these problems.
In addition, they take care of their wife and children and their divorce rate is also very low.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Happiness Comes from Within
As we now know that we can’t buy happiness with money and there is no other shortcut to happiness. It is something that you feel from within.
In addition, true happiness comes from within yourself. Happiness is basically a state of mind.
Moreover, it can only be achieved by being positive and avoiding any negative thought in mind. And if we look at the bright side of ourselves only then we can be happy.
Happiness in a Relationship
People nowadays are not satisfied with their relationship because of their differences and much other reason. But for being happy in a relationship we have to understand that there are some rules or mutual understanding that keeps a relationship healthy and happy.
Firstly, take care of yourself then your partner because if you yourself are not happy then how can you make your partner happy.
Secondly, for a happy and healthy relationship give you partner some time and space. In addition, try to understand their feeling and comfort level because if you don’t understand these things then you won’t be able to properly understand your partner.
Most importantly, take initiative and plan to go out with your partner and family. Besides, if they have plans then go with them.
To conclude, we can say that happiness can only be achieved by having positive thinking and enjoying life. Also, for being happy and keeping the people around us happy we have to develop a healthy relationship with them. Additionally, we also have to give them the proper time.
FAQs about Happiness
Q.1 What is True Happiness?
A.1 True happiness means the satisfaction that you find worthy. The long-lasting true happiness comes from life experience, a feeling of purpose, and a positive relationship.
Q.2 Who is happier the rich or the poor and who is more wealthy rich or poor?
A.2 The poor are happier then the rich but if we talk about wealth the rich are more wealthy then the poor. Besides, wealth brings insecurity, anxiety and many other problems.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp