500+ Words Essay on Health and Hygiene
In modern times, it has become so important to take care of one’s health and hygiene. With the rising population levels, pollution levels, emission of harmful gases, it has to be a priority for everyone to maintain their health and hygiene. The health and hygiene essay guides you the different ways into which a person should be aware of his/her health. 
For the human body, health is a positive state where every part of the mind and body is in harmony. Additionally, it is also functioning and balancing the other parts. Thus, in other words, when all parts of the body are functioning well, this physical well-being state of the human body is called health. It is well said and proved that a healthy person is someone who has a sound body and a sound mind. Health is one of the characteristics of life that helps a person live longer. 
According to WHO, health is a state of complete mental, spiritual, physical, and social well being and not only the absence of disease. If a person is in a good physical state and free from any diseases but is under constant stress, greed, tension, anger, etc, then that person is not healthy. 
Hygiene refers to good practices and rituals that prevent diseases and leads to good health. Thus, it mainly includes proper sewage disposal, cleanliness, and safe drinking water supply. So, it includes all the activities that are done for preserving and improving as well as maintaining sound health. 
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Good habits for Better Health and Hygiene
Nutritious Food 
For good health, one needs to eat wholesome food. Some part of the food that we take in serves as fit to keep the body warm. While another part results in the flesh that helps in giving strength. One of the most nutritious food is considered as pure milk. There are many other things like vegetables that we generally take in order to have nutritious food. For a human body, a mixed diet is considered the best option. It should have an adequate amount of minerals, vitamins, and calories required to run our body. 
Pure Water
One of the major sources of good health and hygiene is pure water. Although it seems like a normal thing, water is one essential that makes up our body. Many people get sick because of drinking impure water. Also, it mostly happens in villages where people bathe, washcloths, and clean the cattles in the same water. Thus, when this water is used for drinking purposes, then it may result in hazardous health. 
Cleanliness
Cleanliness is one of the most important elements of good health. Thus, it is an important hygiene habit to keep yourself and your surroundings neat and clean. Whenever there is dirt, there are germs that thrive in it. Also, the dirt is light in air and thus it moves around in the air. So, a dirty man is often the one that is attacked easily with various diseases. 
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp