500+ Words Essay on Health
Essay on Health: Health was earlier said to be the ability of the body functioning well. However, as time evolved, the definition of health also evolved. It cannot be stressed enough that health is the primary thing after which everything else follows. When you maintain good health, everything else falls into place.
Similarly, maintaining good health is dependent on a lot of factors. It ranges from the air you breathe to the type of people you choose to spend your time with. Health has a lot of components that carry equal importance. If even one of them is missing, a person cannot be completely healthy.
Constituents of Good Health
First, we have our physical health. This means being fit physically and in the absence of any kind of disease or illness. When you have good physical health, you will have a longer life span. One may maintain their physical health by having a balanced diet. Do not miss out on the essential nutrients; take each of them in appropriate quantities.
Secondly, you must exercise daily. It may be for ten minutes only but never miss it. It will help your body maintain physical fitness. Moreover, do not consume junk food all the time. Do not smoke or drink as it has serious harmful consequences. Lastly, try to take adequate sleep regularly instead of using your phone.
Next, we talk about our mental health. Mental health refers to the psychological and emotional well-being of a person. The mental health of a person impacts their feelings and way of handling situations. We must maintain our mental health by being positive and meditating.
Subsequently, social health and cognitive health are equally important for the overall well-being of a person. A person can maintain their social health when they effectively communicate well with others. Moreover, when a person us friendly and attends social gatherings, he will definitely have good social health. Similarly, our cognitive health refers to performing mental processes effectively. To do that well, one must always eat healthily and play brain games like Chess, puzzles and more to sharpen the brain.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Physical Health Alone is Not Everything
There is this stigma that surrounds mental health. People do not take mental illnesses seriously. To be completely fit, one must also be mentally fit. When people completely discredit mental illnesses, it creates a negative impact.
For instance, you never tell a person with cancer to get over it and that it’s all in their head in comparison to someone dealing with depression. Similarly, we should treat mental health the same as physical health.
Parents always take care of their children’s physical needs. They feed them with nutritious foods and always dress up their wounds immediately. However, they fail to notice the deteriorating mental health of their child. Mostly so, because they do not give it that much importance. It is due to a lack of awareness amongst people.
Even amongst adults, you never know what a person is going through mentally.
Thus, we need to be able to recognize the signs of mental illnesses. A laughing person does not equal a happy person. We must not consider mental illnesses as a taboo and give it the attention it deserves to save people’s lives.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp