500+ Words Essay on I Love My Family
Everyone loves their family so do I. In my family there are six members my mother, father, my grandfather, grandmother, younger sister and me. My parents love and pampered both of us. In addition, my family is very supportive and helpful for anything we do. Besides, every child has dreams and aspiration so we also have some dreams too. In addition, not everyone is lucky enough to get their family to support them. But, I am one of those lucky people who get full support from their families.
All my Family Members
Our grandparents live with us. Besides, many of my cousins live nearby and often visit our home on weekends.
My Grandmother
My grandmother is an excellent cook that makes delicious food. Also, she makes sure that we eat a lot of healthy and mouthwatering food each day. Besides, the food we also love her bedtime stories that she narrates to us. During the weekends, I, my sister, and cousin cuddle around her to listen to her gloomy stories.
My Grandfather
My grandfather is a highly literate person. He often helps me and my sister in studies. In addition, he is very good at mathematics and English and he easily solves those difficult problems that we take time to solve. He only takes a few minutes to solve those problems. Besides, he loves morning walks and every morning takes us with him. During the walk, he shares his life experiences and me and my sister love to hear about them.
My Father
My father is a hardworking man who dedicated his entire life to make sure that we don’t have compromise on our comfort. Although he never talks to us rudely we children are always scared of him no matter what the reason is. But, he spends weekends with us and during the evening hours, he talks to us. He generally asks about what we have done this week and what’s new happening in our school life.
My Mother
My mother is the next person to a grandmother who cares for us like the way our grandmother do or even more. She makes sure that the house is neat and clean so do us. Also, she organizes everything in the house so that we don’t have to waste our time looking for things that we kept anywhere and forgot it. Also, she takes us on shopping with her to the mall and grocery store and while returning she often treats us with ice cream or chocolate. Above all, she takes care of all our needs and also loves us dearly.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My Sister
My sister and I are like best friends we share everything with each other and know every secret of the other. But we have promised each other to never tell about each other secret to anyone. Also, we study, play, and laugh together. In addition, we have supported each other in good as well as bad times.
To conclude, our family is filled with love and laughter where everyone loves and cares for each other. Furthermore, our grandparents teach us good habits and manners and the lesson of life. While our parents provide us with all our needs.
Above all, this teaches me a great lesson in life that will help me in my future personal as well as professional life.
FAQs about Essay on I Love My Family
Q.1 Why family is important?
A.1 Family is an important part of everyone’s life. It helps us in improving our personality, social, character, our way of seeing things and many more.
Q.2 Define the meaning of family?
A.2 A family is a group of people that are related to each other directly and indirectly.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp