500+ Words Essay on Importance of Good Manners
Man is the most intelligent creation of God on the earth as he lives in society. Also, he has the capacity to think, talk and act accordingly. So, he must know how to behave well and perform good manners. Parents must teach their kids about their behavior with family members, neighbors, friends, teachers, etc. Some people behave well with sweet words only in front and not behind. This is not a good manner. Good manners are very essential in life as they help us to behave well in society. Good manners help us to win the heart of people in the public place. Therefore, one can create a unique personality due to good manners.
What are Good Manners?
A person with good manners shows respects towards feelings and sentiments of others living in the surroundings. He/she never differentiates people and shows equal regard to everyone. Modesty, humbleness, kindness, and courtesy are the essential traits of a well-behaving person. Hence, a well-behaved person never feels proud or arrogant and always take care of the feelings of others. Practicing good manners and following them all through the day will definitely bring sunshine and add qualities to life.
Must have Good Manners
Though traits within good manners are uncountable, some traits are a must. These good manners are necessary for all. Some of such good manners which we can practice in our daily life are like:
We must learn the habit of sharing things to others.
We should be helpful, polite and humble to others in every possible way.
We must use the words ‘sorry’, ‘please’, ‘thank you’, ‘excuse me’ and ‘time wish’ as and when required.
We must respect the other’s property and always take permission before using.
We must be responsible as well as self-dependent for everything at every place.
We must behave in a good way with humble respect to our teachers, parents, other elders and senior citizens.
We should always maintain cleanliness at home, school, and all other public places.
We should not use any offensive or abusive language to others at home or any other place.
We must give the seat for senior citizens while using public transport.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of Good Manners in our Life
Good manners are very important in our daily life. Importance of these in life is the well-known facts. Good manner creates an effective interaction with friends as well as make a good impression on a public platform. It helps us to be positive throughout the day. Therefore, parents must help their kids to inculcate all possible good manners in their habit.
Good manners always give the opportunity for a new conversation with people and hence the ultimate success in life. If someone talks to you badly, then still don’t talk him in the same way. Always talk him in your own positive way of behaving to give him the chance to change.
Conclusion
Good manners are vital to each and everyone in the society. These will definitely help us for getting popularity and success in life because nobody likes mischief and misbehaved person. Good manners are like a tonic to the people living in society.
People with polite and pleasant nature are always popular and respectable by a large number of people. Obviously, such people are having magnetic influence over others. Thus, we must practice and follow good manners in our life always.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp