500 Words Essay on Importance of Tree Plantation
Tree plantation is the process of transferring of seedlings from one place to another for different purposes. Furthermore, there are various reasons behind tree plantation but the most important are forestry, land reclamation, and landscaping. Each process of tree plantation is important and unique in its own way.
Importance of Forestry Method of Tree Plantation
The most common and known purpose of tree plantation is forestry. The forest is very important for maintaining the ecological balance of the environment of the earth. Also, earlier the forest use to cover a major part of the surface of the earth. But, now due to the rapid cut down of forest due to industries, and land for settlement the number of forests has reduced.
Apart from that, the forest grows naturally but in order to increase the speed of reforestation, our contribution is a must for it. Also, it will help the forest to recover from the loss due to deforestation. Furthermore, with our help, the pace of tree plantation can be increased.
Importance of Landscaping Method of Tree Plantation
We do this type of plantation in cities or urban areas. Most of these areas lack trees and plants. Besides, tree plantation makes these areas worth living for. Also, it makes the atmosphere of the city more tolerable.
In addition, it renders a good feeling and makes the place worth living. It is the easiest way to beautify the surrounding. Trees are often planted on the parks, gardens, roadside, societies, and garden of our home for the purpose of reforming.
Besides, it does not only make the surrounding beautiful but also provides various other benefits and helps in beating the heat.
Volunteer for the cause
Many NGOs and organizations have volunteered for tree plantation. It is one of the easiest and quickest ways to spread greenery in the world. Also, people around the world have always contributed to this cause from time to time. In addition, many have a set of communities and workgroups that works towards making the earth green and a better place to live.
Furthermore, these organizations not only engage themselves in plantation activities. But, also in spreading awareness among the people and asking them to join the cause.
Moreover, with the arrival of social media, it has become a massive platform to promote these causes. Also, they are helpful in spreading knowledge about the importance of tree plantation.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Government Support
The support of the government is also a must for making the environment cleaner and greener. Because NGOs and social groups lack funds to propagate these causes but with the help of government they can easily do it.
Also, the government should support this cause wholeheartedly to advance. Because the organization is working to make the nation a better place. With the help of the government, these organizations can perform their projects at a much bigger level than they are doing now.
To conclude, the time has come for us to realize the importance of tree plantation. Also, it is our duty to contribute to tree plantation. In addition, the government must take this matter seriously and should start working towards involving more and more people to advance the cause.
FAQs on Importance of Tree Plantation
Q.1 Why trees are important?
A.1 Trees are not important they are essential for living. They provide us oxygen, filter carbon dioxide, prevent soil erosion, maintain the ecological balance and many more. Also, they provide us food, shelter and many useful things.
Q.2 When do we celebrate plantation day?
A.2 We celebrate plantation day on 21st March each year.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp