500+ Words Essay  on Importance of Independence Day
India celebrates Independence day on 15th August every year. As it is on this day in the year 1947 India got its independence from British rule. The reason that India got its’ Independence on 15th August was Lord Mountbatten considered this date lucky. Because it was the same day in the year 1945 the Japanese forces surrendered before him.
Furthermore, we celebrate Independence day to remember our Freedom Fighters. Because they were the ones who struggled for our country and sacrificed their lives. Our Independence day is of great importance to us. As it is the only day when we can remember our martyrs who died for the country. Also, it is the only day when we forget all our cultural differences and unite as one true Indian.
Importance of Independence Day Celebration
In our country, the Independence day celebration is done on a vast scale. Every government building is full of decoration with light. Also, these lights are of three colors orange, green, and white. Because these are the colors of our National Flag. Moreover, every person whether being a government or private official has to be present in the offices. To hoist the National Flag of our country and sing our National Anthem. However, there are other reasons Our Independence day is important to us
To Pay Tribute to Our Freedom Fighters
Our Freedom Fighters struggled for our country to make us free. Furthermore, they were the ones who sacrificed their lives for our country. It is on this day that every individual of the country pays tribute to them. In Schools and colleges, there is an organization of various functions. In this, the students perform acts to represent the struggle of our freedom fighters.
Moreover, the students have a solo and duet performance of patriotic songs. To fill us with the feeling of patriotism and love for our country. In offices, there is no work done on this day. Furthermore, the officials wear Tricolor dresses to express their patriotism for the country. Also in various offices, employees deliver speeches to enlighten people about the freedom struggle. And the efforts made by or freedom fighters to make this country an independent nation.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
To Kindle Patriotism in the Youth to Serve the Nation
The youth of our country has the ability to change the nation. As it rightly said that the future depends on the young generation. So it is our duty to serve the nation and make every possible effort to make our country better. One of the main motives for the celebration of Independence Day is to make our youth aware.
Moreover, it is to tell them how our country got independence from the clutches of the Britishers. And the sacrifices made by our freedom fighters because of their for the country. Furthermore, it is also done so that the children may come to know the history of their country. And the way the development took place in the past years. So that they be serious about their future careers and put efforts to make our country better.
FAQs on Importance of Independence Day
Q1. When is the Independence day of our country celebrated?
A1. The celebration of Independence takes place on 15th August every year. The date of Independence is 15th August because Lord Mountbatten – the Viceroy considered this date lucky.
Q2. How is Independence day celebrated?
A2. Independence day in our country is always celebrated with great enthusiasm. There is a Tricolor light decoration in the entire country. Moreover, it is the official holiday in the entire country. To remember the sacrifices of our martyrs. Also, their struggle for the country to provide us freedom.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp