500 Words Essay On Importance of Cleanliness
Each one of us enjoys living in a clean environment. We all have the ability to maintain cleanliness as it is not a tough task. Cleanliness is a habitual process that we must do on a daily basis. For instance, personal hygiene and environmental cleanliness are equally important to lead a happy life. The importance of cleanliness essay will explain this in further detail.
Importance of Cleanliness
Cleanliness is a very essential component of human life in both physical and spiritual terms. Spiritual cleanliness refers to following the beliefs and rituals of your religion. On the other hand, the physical one is essential for the well-being of and existence of humanity.
It is essential to lead a healthy and well life. In fact, health and cleanliness are related to each other. To get good health, one must practice hygiene. It is essential to practice maintaining good health and prevent diseases.
Moreover, equally important is the cleanliness of our environment. When you maintain cleanliness, you can prevent disease and lead a healthy life. Health professionals advocate hygienic practices to prolong the lives of individuals.
Moreover, when the environment is clean, safety is enabled. For instance, we must ensure no spilling of water to prevent people from falling. Similarly, clearing bushes around homes will offer safety from harmful insects and animals.
Further, we must not only clean the environment but organize the environment carefully. In other words, put away harmful objects to prevent accidents. Similarly, in the food industry, cleanliness is of the utmost importance.
It ensures the well-being of the consumers. Most importantly, cleanliness enables the extension of a lifespan of an object. When you keep the metallic objects free from dust and rust, they will have a longer shelf life.
Thus, we see how cleanliness is important in every sphere of life. Whether it is living or inanimate objects, everything requires cleanliness. Moreover, it is also a moral virtue that makes people admirable.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
How to Maintain Cleanliness
There are many ways through which one can maintain cleanliness and keep themselves and the environment happy. A major way of maintaining cleanliness is brushing and bathing regularly.
Similarly, it is also important to wash hand as often as possible, mostly before and after meals. With the onset of the coronavirus, it has become even more important to wash our hands repeatedly.
Further, we must keep our nails trimmed and eat healthy food. Moving on to environmental cleanliness, we must clean the mess in our surroundings regularly. Try your best to avoid plastic bags and littering around by throwing garbage carelessly.
It is essential to effectively dispose of waste and wastewater. Most importantly, adopt reusing and recycling techniques to monitor pollution levels. Thus, we must practice all this and more to ensure cleanliness.
Conclusion of Importance of Cleanliness Essay
We must all do our bit to maintain cleanliness in our life. There are many initiatives launched by the government to practice cleanliness but it won’t work unless all of us do. It helps in inculcating good habits in citizens of the country. Along with practising it ourselves, we must also stop others from disturbing cleanliness.
FAQ of Importance of Cleanliness Essay
Question 1: What is the importance of cleanliness?
Answer 1: Maintaining cleanliness is a vital part of healthy living as it helps to improve our personality by staying clean externally and internally. It is everybody’s responsibility and one should keep themselves and their surroundings clean and hygienic.
Question 2: What are the effects of cleanliness?
Answer 2: Cleanliness has many positive effects on everyone. It directly impacts the ability to learn and has a significant effect on the mind of students. When there is a dirty environment, it may increases levels of stress. Moreover, cleanliness keeps one happy.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp