500+ Words Essay on Importance of Forest
Forests provide the house for many living beings. Thus, it is one of the precious resources provided by nature to human beings. Also, the organisms that live in Forrests are independent of each other. Life in Forrest is run by various factors like air, water, and sunlight. Also, there are a variety of plants that are available in Forests. Besides this, various trees, herbs, and shrubs depend on the climate of the forests. Also, there are plants that rely on animals for processes like seed dispersal and pollination. The importance of Forrest essay provides a guide into the functions of forests and why it is important to preserve them. 
There are many forests that are spread across large areas across the globe. Forests further are classified into evergreen, partly evergreen, tropical, dry, and deciduous forests. Also, these forests are based on the climatic conditions and the type of trees present in the forest. Also, Forrest compromises of the non-living components like lakes, soil, rocks, ponds, etc.
Forests are a resource to humankind that just keeps on giving. Forrest is a great help to mankind and there are benefits of forests. The benefits of the forest should be understood and proper care should be taken. So, some of the points that help in understanding the importance of forests are below.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Benefits of Forests
Forests help in maintaining the oxygen and temperature levels of the atmosphere. Plants during photosynthesis release oxygen whereas it consumes carbon dioxide. This is the complete phenomenon that humans do. Also, forests are a huge reserve of trees and plants. Thus, they help by playing a significant role in balancing the oxygen level of the entire atmosphere. 
Furthermore, forests help in maintaining the oxygen cycle on the planet Earth. The water through the soils is absorbed by plants through their roots. Thus, the release of excessive water by the plant into the atmosphere in the form of water vapor is called the transpiration process.
So, in this process water vapor from the ocean rises and gets condensed in the formation of clouds is called precipitation. Thus, it eventually leads to the formation of rainfall. So, all these processes come together to form the water cycle where the forest plays a significant role. 
Forests also help in preventing the global warming levels of the Earth. The increase in the amount of carbon dioxide which is a greenhouse gas into the atmosphere results in the greenhouse effect on Earth. Thus, it is majorly responsible for causing global warming on Earth. 
Additionally, forests prevent soil erosion on Earth. There are trees that are present in the forests that bind the soil strongly from the roots. Thus, this results in soil being prevented from erosion. 
FAQs on Forest
Q. How do forests reduce soil erosion?
A. There are trees that are present in the forests that bind the soil strongly from the roots. Thus, this results in soil being prevented from erosion. 
Q. In how types are forests classified into?
A. Forests are classified into evergreen, partly evergreen, tropical, dry, and deciduous forests.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp