500+ Words Essay on Indira Gandhi
Indira Gandhi in India is known as the ‘Iron lady of India’. After the Lal Bahadur Shastri died, Indira Gandhi became the prime minister if India. Also, she established her worth and became the strongest prime as well as president of the Congress party. When she became the prime minister of India, the congress party was divided. Thus, she overcame all the hurdles and proved her to be the strongest prime minister of India. The Indira Gandhi essay will give you a glimpse of what Indira Gandhi the strongest prime minister of India. 
Shrimati Indira Gandhi was born on 19th November 1917 at Anand Bhawan in Uttar Pradesh. Indira Gandhi received education in different places because her parents were constantly moving. She received her primary education at Allahabad only. Besides this, she also studied various subjects at Oxford and Shanti Niketan. In 1942, she was married to a Parsi youth by the name of Feroz Gandhi. Her husband died in 1960 and both of them had two sons, Rajiv and Sanjay. 
From her early life only, Indira Gandhi has been a member of the Indian national congress. Also, in 1959, she was elected as the party president of Indian national congress. It was only after her father Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru died she became the minister of information and broadcasting. After the untimely death of then prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi became the prime minister of India in 1966. She held on to the prime minister office for 17 years. 
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
When she was prime minister of India, she led the country to greater heights. Under her leadership in 1971, India defeated Pakistan in the war and broke its back. Additionally, she also nationalized the banks in 1970 and abolished all the privy purses. These two bold steps defined her time as a prime minister of India.
One major decision of her tenure was yet to come when in 1975, opposition parties revolted against the historical judgment of justice Sinha. Thus, to neutralize the effect of the opposition of the country she declared the state of internal emergency. So, this resulted in a defeat for her in 1977. After this, for two and a half years she remained in hot water and it was in January 1980 that she came back to her position in the midterm poll. 
Indira Gandhi – Second Term
After she returned to the office, she had to face many more challenges. The demand of ‘Khalistan’ was on the rise and it made her restless. This resulted in the attack on the golden temple. Thus, she ordered the army to rescue the Operation and free the temple from terrorists. On 31st October 1984, she was shot dead at her residence by two of her own security guards. 
She was a woman of courage, vision, and foresight. Also, her 20 point program was a bold way in order to bring the prosperity of the poor. She was a woman who made history as a prime minister of India. 
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp