500+ Words Essay on Indian Heritage
Heritage means what we inherit from our ancestors and from our past. India is a land of varied cultures and traditions. People from numerous castes, religions, and creeds reside in our country. Each ethnic group in our country has its own tale of origin and its set of unique traditions and culture. They have all contributed to the making of Indian history and culture. Nature has made India into a distinct geographical entity.
Indian Heritage: A Gift from the Older Generations
Indian heritage and culture are vast and vivid because of the large number of religious groups residing in our country. Every community has its own set of customs and traditions which it passes on to its younger generation.
However, some of our customs and traditions remain the same throughout IndiaOur traditions teach us to inculcate good habits and make us a good human being. Our cultural heritage is thus a beautiful gift from our older generation that will help us become a better human being and build a harmonious society.
Respect for our Indian Heritage
The elders should take responsibility to invoke love for the Indian heritage in the younger generations. This must be done from the very beginning only then we can preserve our rich heritage. It is the duty of the elders to invoke love for the Indian heritage in the younger generations.
This must be done from the very beginning only then we can preserve our rich heritage. Schools must teach students about Indian heritage and how it has survived for centuries. They must also share the importance of preserving it. This would help in invoking a feeling of pride in them and they would be inspired to continue the tradition and also pass it on to the new generation. This needs a collective effort by the teachers as well as parents.
Our Literature
Indian literature is as rich as its culture. We have various books written on many topics since ancient times. We have the Vedic literature, epic Sanskrit literature, Classic Sanskrit literature and Pali literature among other kinds of Indian literature. Many of our books are being translated to other languages to provide access to a greater number of readers so that more and people can benefit from the knowledge. Such a wonderful and rich literature must be preserved at any cost.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Beautiful Geological Structures
Numerous beautiful geological structures found in different parts of India. Best of the splendid geological structures that form a part of our country include Lonar Crater Lake, Siachen Glacier, Jammu and Kashmir, Pillar Rocks, Kodaikanal, Barren Island, Andamans, Magnetic Hill, Leh, Columnar Basaltic Lava, Udupi, and Toad Rock. All these structures are true wonders of nature. A lot of tourists every year from around the world especially visit these places just to catch a glimpse of these marvelous creations of God.
UNESCO World Natural Heritage Sites in India
The below geological places have been enlisted in UNESCO World Natural Heritage Sites. These sites include:
1. Home for the rare one-horned rhinoceros, Kaziranga National Park, in 1985.
2. Home for numerous species of beautiful birds, Keoladeo National Park, in 1985.
3. A beautiful wildlife sanctuary, Manas Wildlife Sanctuary, in 1985.
4. The biggest mangrove forest, Sundarbans, in the year 1987.
5. Nanda Devi and Valley of Flowers National Park, in 2004.
6. The Western Ghats, in 2012.
7. The Great Himalayan National Park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the year 2014.
Conclusion
India is an ancient country. We are blessed with a beautiful heritage. We are solely responsible to preserve the same so that our future generations also get to see and experience the same.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp