500+ Words on Integrity Essay
There is a famous saying which perfectly describes integrity. “Honesty is telling the truth to other people, integrity is telling the truth to myself.” The word ‘integrity’ itself has a Latin origin. It is derived from the word ‘integer’ and means to feel whole, i.e. a complete person. So it refers to the sense of completeness and togetherness one enjoys when they live their lives honestly and morally. So a person that has integrity will act and behave as per set values and believes they hold dear. Let us explore this concept more in this integrity essay.
Academic Integrity
Academic integrity refers to the ethical policies and moral code employed in the academic world by all members – the students and the teachers. So as we saw previously in this integrity essay, it involves being honest and doing the right thing even if you get no recognition for doing so. It involves being honest and correct when no one is watching.
Academic integrity is important to lay down a good foundation for the student, so he can follow the same principles for the rest of his life. Integrity leads to trust-building among colleagues and friends. It is also the sign of a good future leader. It is a good habit to develop early in your life, it will hold you in good stead as you progress in your life.
So basic things like doing your own homework, writing your own papers, not plagiarizing your essays or dissertations, not cheating on home tests, never cheating on any assignments, and generally doing your work ethically and honestly are the all essential. They are the building blocks of academic integrity.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Professional Integrity
Next, we shall explore professional integrity in this integrity essay. As we know, integrity is one of the essential value an employer always seeks in his employees. So professional integrity is when a person adopts his values and integrity to his chosen profession and job.
Sound moral and ethical beliefs and basic honesty are highly valued characteristics in an employee. Such an employee behaves morally with his co-workers, his superiors and all other stakeholders of the organization.  Acting with integrity and honesty is an actual advantage in the workplace. It builds trust and people are drawn towards such honest and dependable behavior. Integrity in a workplace also promotes a positive environment which encourages higher productivity.
Not only students and professionals, but integrity is also a value that everyone should strive for. Integrity is a trait that goes a long way in making people a better version of themselves, better human beings in general. And a person with true integrity does things because it is the right thing to do, and never for any praise or recognition. True integrity is never practiced for recognition or praise but to fulfill personal values.
FAQ’s on Integrity
Q: State some of the traits of a person with integrity
Ans: A person with true integrity exhibits certain traits such as,
they take responsibility for all their actions
always help others in need
often put the needs of others above themselves
respect everyone that deserves their respect
are usually humble and exhibit humility
generally very reliable in nature
they are kind by nature
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp