500+ Words Essay on Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
Ishwar Chandra was a Bengali polymath who played a key role in the Bengal Renaissance. Many articles have been written on this great personality. Writing an essay on Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar can infuse feelings of nationalism and patriotism in any writer. Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was a man of multiple skills and talents. Most noteworthy, he was an academic educator, philosopher, printer, entrepreneur, reformer, philanthropist, translator, and publisher.
Accolades of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar certainly received many accolades in his life. Some of these accolades include:
Vidyasagar Setu – This is commonly known as the Second Hooghly Bridge. It refers to a bridge over the Hooghly River. Furthermore, this bridge is in West Bengal, India. Moreover, the bridge links the city of Howrah to its twin city of Kolkata. The bridge is named after the great personality Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar.
Vidyasagar Mela – This refers to a fair named after Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. Furthermore, the dedication of this fair is towards spreading education and social awareness. Moreover, the fair has been taking place on an annual basis in West Bengal since 1994.
Vidyasagar College/University – This is a famous college in Kolkata which bears the name of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. Similarly, there is also a Vidyasagar university. The location of both college and university is in Paschim, Midnapore.
Companion of the Indian Empire – Vidyasagar was a man of immense rectitude and courage. Furthermore, he was a man who ahead of his time. The government, in recognition of his phenomenal scholarship and cultural work, designated him with Companion of the Indian Empire (CIE) in 1877.
Vidyasagar Street – This is a famous street in Central Kolkata which bears his name.
Other Honours – There is a famous statue of Vidyasagar at Barasat, the district center of North 24 Parganas. Furthermore, the West Bengal Government led to the establishment of this statue. Besides this, there is a Vidyasagar Hall of Residence at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Also, there is a Vidyasagar station whose location is at Jamtara district of Jharkhand.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Biography of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
No essay on Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar can take place without mentioning his splendid biography. The explanation of the Biography of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar is as follows:
Early Life – Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was born on 26 September 1820 at Birsingha village. Furthermore, this village is at the Paschim Midnapore district in Bengal province. Moreover, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar’s family was an orthodox Brahmin family. At age 6, his parents sent him to Calcutta so as to live with Bhagabat Charan’s house. He began studying by joining a local school.
Education – Vidyasagar passed in Sanskrit Grammar in 1841 with disguised marks. Furthermore, he joined a Sanskrit College to teach as a part-time job. Moreover, the man got knowledge of Vedanta and astronomy. Also, he joined the Fort William College as a professor to teach the Sanskrit language.
Social Reformer – Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar made a lot of focus on women’s status in society. He certainly tried to bring reforms to the status of women in those days. Vidyasagar made a lot of effort to remove the helplessness and pains of Hindu widows. This is because the condition of Hindu widows in those days was quite depressing and hopeless.
Most noteworthy, he questioned the Brahminical authorities about the widow status in the religious scriptures. Finally, after many efforts, he forced the British to bring the ‘Widows Remarriage Act. 1856.
Death- Ishwara Chandra Vidyasagar died on 29 July 1891. Furthermore, he was seventy years of age at the time of his death. He was awarded the prestigious title of ‘Vidyasagar’, from the ‘Sanskrit College’ in Calcutta. ‘Vidya’ is a Sanskrit word which means knowledge and ‘Sagar’ means ocean. Therefore, ‘Vidya Sagar’ means ‘Ocean of Knowlege’.
Some FAQs on Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
Q1 State any one accolade of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar?
A1 One accolade of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar can be “Vidyasagar Mela”. Furthermore, this refers to a fair named after Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. Also, this fair takes place annually in West Bengal.
Q2 State any one notable contribution of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar?
A2 A notable contribution of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar is that he forced the British by his efforts to bring the ‘Widows Remarriage Act. 1856.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp