500+ Words Essay on Land Pollution
The various human activities and also natural factors are the various causes of land pollution. Besides, some of the causes of land pollution are the use of pesticides, agricultural and industrial waste, deforestation, growing urbanization, acid rains, and mining activities. Furthermore, these activities not only cause damage to the soil but also the reason for various human and animal infections and diseases.
Ways to Limit land Pollution
This harmful pollution is on the rise of its all-time maximum. The government and organizations are working at their level best to minimize this pollution. But it is necessary that we should also contribute to it. In addition, making some small changes in our daily life we can lower the amount of land pollution from the environment. Besides, here we are going to discuss some ways by which we can minimize land pollution.
Use biodegradable products instead of non-biodegradable, as they are easy to dispose of and are pretty much safe for the environment. Also, start-using food that is pesticides and fertilizers free as their usage increases the farmers will reduce the usage of chemical fertilizers and pesticides in their fields.
Besides, if you have a garden or enough space in your home then start growing your own organic fruits and vegetables. In addition, avoid packing of things as most of these things are made from non-biodegradable materials that take hundreds of years to dispose of.
The government has banned the use of polybags but still, people are using them. Furthermore, these polybags are one of the major contributors to land pollution. It is also recommended that things made from plastic should be avoided. Researches have proved that using things made of plastic causes cancer in humans.
Instead of plastic use paper bags for shopping because they are reusable. But, cloth bags are more convenient as they can be washed and used many times.
Separate the wet and dry waste and for assuring this, the government has put green and blue dustbins all over the city. So, that waste can be easily treated according to their nature.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Causes for Land Pollution
Land pollution is the cause of many different factors that ultimately pollute the land. These factors include solid waste, deforestation, chemical, and agricultural activities. Many of these cause a bad affect on the environment.
Solid waste mostly made up of products that are non-biodegradable and these are hard to dispose of.
Deforestation causes the loss of the topmost fertile layer of soil that is essential for the growth of plants and trees. Chemicals are hard in nature and difficult to dispose of. Besides, the solid waste of pesticides, insecticides, and fertilizers are either thrown in landfills or at other places. These wastes create another type of land pollution. In addition, agricultural activities use a high amount of chemical products that not only harm the food crop but also the land. Furthermore, these cause other pollution too.
In conclusion, land pollution can only be controlled if with the government we also contribute to it. And our contribution requires us to use fewer amounts of products that cause land pollution. Also, we should make it our duty to sort out the waste and avoid the usage of non-biodegradable products.
FAQs about Essay on Land Pollution
Q.1 Name some soil or land pollutants?
A.1 Some soil or land pollutants are chemicals, pesticides and fertilizers, mining activity, use of plastic, deforestation, growing urbanization, and industrial waste.
Q.2 How can we control land pollution?
A.2 We can control land pollution by various methods. These methods include avoiding plastic bags, separation of household waste, stopping the use of fertilizers and pesticides on agricultural produce, and many more.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp