500+ Words Essay on Laughter is the Best Medicine
One of the best feelings in the world that also brings so much of cheer to life is laughter. It really is one of the best medicines in the world. Also, whether it’s a smile or just a slight giggle, laughter completely alters the atmosphere and mood of the surroundings. Furthermore, it makes you feel good and everyone around you will also feel positive vibes. The laughter is the best medicine essay teaches you the important benefits of inculcating laughter in day to day life. 
Laughter acts as a powerful antidote for pain, stress, and conflict. There is nothing that works faster in order to bring back mind and body into balance than a good laugh. Also, humor lightens your burden, connects you to others and keep you focused. Thus, laughter has so much power to renew and heal one’s mind and body. Also, the ability to laugh frequently is the best way to surmount the problems. Furthermore, it supports your emotional as well as physical health. Additionally, laughter also enhances your relationships. 
A good hearty laugh everyday relieves a person from stress and physical tension. Thus, even the muscles are relaxed after good laughter of 45 minutes. Laughter increases the immune cells in your body and decreases the stress hormones. Also, it fights the infection-fighting antibodies. So, it helps in improving a person’s resistance to power against the diseases. Laughter increases the blood in your body and also the functioning of blood vessels. Thus, it can help in protecting a person against a heart attack. 
Additionally, laughter helps you feel good. The good feeling that you actually get during laughter remains with you even when you stop laughing. Thus, laughter helps you with a positive view in difficult times. A slight smile or a laugh can do a world of good for you.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Benefits of Laughing Regularly
Improves Cardiovascular Health
Laughing is a good workout for your cardio. Especially for people that are not very active throughout the day can laugh several times. Also, you will burn calories and remain healthy by laughing. Laughing is an exercise where you inhale oxygen and this stimulates the heart. 
Releases Endorphins
There are tiny neurochemicals in our body in the form of endorphins that acts as a pain reliever. So, when you laugh, it releases the endorphins. Thus, it can help in reducing the pain and thereby enhances your mood. 
Lowers Blood Pressure
One of the simplest medicine to reduce your blood pressure is laughter. Besides, there are no side effects of laughter. There are only positive effects on one’s well being through laughter. Thus, it becomes important to have a daily dose of laughter to control your blood pressure. 
Reduces Stress
Laughter helps in reducing the level of stress hormones in one’s body. Thus, it will ultimately reduce the anxiety and stress that can negatively impact your body. Also, reduction in stress will lead to higher immune performance.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp