500+ Words Essay on Life in a Big City
Essay on Life in a Big City– The city life of a big city is always growing and moving. Also, there are hundreds and thousands of opportunities for people in big cities to learn and grow. In addition, they provide a chance to grow professionally and personally. Due to the exposure in cities, people tend to be smarter, and intelligent in comparison to the people who live in small towns and villages. Besides, the life of the city is very fast and only people with smart minds can survive there.
Self-growth in Big Cities
The scope of personal growth and development is more in comparison to towns and villages. Furthermore, the children of big cities have access to better school and colleges which give them an opportunity for all-round development.
Also, these institutions give chances to each individual to participate in various activities and events that help them to explore their area of interest. In addition, there is a number of activities that one can perform outside school and colleges in cities.
Moreover, due to interaction with others, the children are more self-confident in their selves in comparison to a village or small city kids.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Professional Growth in Cities
In big cities, there are a more profitable business and career opportunity for everyone. Which is unlike in villages and towns where the scope is limited. Many industries and companies operate in cities, which offer good job opportunity to people of different educational background.
Besides, the scenario of business set in the city is much profitable. The cities are also connected with other cities and other parts of the country which give it an advantage over the towns and villages.
In addition, due to better connectivity with other cities, it is easy to deal with clients of other cities to. Also, many institutes of cities offer a course that can help professionals to grow and achieve a new height in their professional carrier. There is immense scope for the expansion and growth of business in cities if the person is willing to work hard and dedicated.
Economic Growth in Big Cities
As there is a better opportunity for personal and professional growth so do for economic growth. Also, many new businesses set up in cities each year that creates many job opportunities.
Most noteworthy, as these businesses flourish and grow they directly or indirectly contribute to the economic development of the cities and country.
The development of these businesses also motivates others to do business and create an opportunity for others. This not only helps other people but also the business to grow.
To sum it up, big cities, on the one hand, offer many opportunities for personal, professional, and economic growth. On the other hand, take away the comfort and relaxation form life. Also, life in cities is very busy and people do not time for their own self and their families. Besides, they do not have time to sit and relax.
People of cities live a life of isolation and suffocation. Above all, they become successful in life. But, they do not have anyone in their life with which they can share their success with.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp