500+ Words Essay on Life in an Indian Village
One fact of which we are all made aware is that India is an agricultural country. This means that the majority of the population practices agriculture either for self-sustenance or as a commercial activity. So there are far more villages and small towns in India that cities and metros. In fact, as per the last census two-thirds of the Indian population still lives in rural areas. The life of a villager and the environment of a village are distinctly different than the urban environment we grow up in. Let us explore this further in this essay on Life in an Indian Village.
The Farmer Life
Farming and agriculture are one of the most difficult jobs. The Indian farmer, in particular, is a hardworking and diligent man. The land and the crops need close attention and efforts day and night for a successful harvest. Life in an Indian village is not a walk in the park by any means.
The farmer will usually start his day before sunup and work throughout the whole day. It involves a lot of manual labor and persistence. They plow the land, sow the seeds, harvest the crops, etc. And a lot of the farmers do not enjoy the luxury of machines or tractors and have to rely on intense manual labor. Rain or shine, they can never take a day off.
And even after all these efforts and sacrifices, the financial conditions of farmers in India remains dire. The rising costs of living, frequent crop failures due to climate changes, insufficient support from the government and many other factors are contributing to their mistreatment. India in fact also faces the shameful problem of rising farmer suicides as well.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Infrastructure and Environment in Villages
As one can imagine, villages are far less congested and polluted than cities. Due to lack of urbanization, they are able to main their natural habitat and environment to a large extent. There is a green cover around the village and overall a calm, clean and beautiful environment. Generally, there is also a water source close by, like a lake or river.
One disadvantage of living in an Indian village is the lack of infrastructure that plagues. Although, since independence, our government has made many efforts to provide these villages with basic infrastructure facilities, we have a long way to go still.
The houses of the villagers are usually made of thatched roofs and mud or clay. These are not permanent structures. There is maybe one school and one hospital shared among 3-4 small villages and usually involves a long commute. The roadways are not well maintained and usually not well connected either. Transportation facilities are also generally lacking and inadequate.
Cultural Life in Villages
The village life, however, is not all work and no play. Villagers often gather for festivals, fairs, harvests, and other religious and cultural functions. Indian villages have a rich history of culture and tradition. Art is celebrated in the form of dance, songs, plays, etc. In fact, some of our most famous dance forms and songs come to us from these traditions practiced in various villages from India.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp