500+ Words Essay on Makar Sankranti
India is the land of festivals. Makar Sankranti is one of the important festivals of Hindu religion that they celebrate with great joy and happiness. The festival is celebrated every year on 14 or 15 January depending upon the solar cycle. They celebrate by taking an early morning holy dip in the river and offering prayers to the sun because according to Hindu mythology sun is one of the many God.
Meaning of Makar Sankranti
The word Makar Sankranti derives from two words Makar and Sankranti. Makar means Capricorn and Sankranti means transition, which makes Makar Sankranti means the transition of the sun in the Capricorn (Zodiac sign). In addition, this occasion is a very sacred and auspicious occasion according to Hinduism and they celebrate it as a festival.
Importance of Makar Sankranti
The shift of sun into Capricorn is of divine importance and we Indian’s believe that taking a dip in the holy river Ganga washes away all your sins and make you soul pure and blessed. In addition, it signifies the increase of spiritual light and reduction of materialized darkness. From the scientific point of view, from Makar Sankranti, the days become longer and the nights become shorter.
Furthermore, it is also a belief that taking a dip in the holy ‘Triveni Sangam’ (The point where Three holy Rivers met namely Ganga, Yamuna, and the Brahmaputra) at Prayagraj on Makar Sankranti during the time of ‘Kumbh Mela’ has great importance in the religion. At this time if you take a holy dip in the river then all your sins and obstacle in life will wash away with the flow of the river.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Celebrating Makar Sankranti
It’s a festival of togetherness and delicacies. The main cuisine of this festival is a dish made of Til and jaggery that add sparks to the festival. Kite flying is also a great part of the festival during the day the whole family enjoys kite flying and at that time the sky is filled with a lot of colorful and different design kites.
The different part of the country celebrates this festival differently and calls it with different names. Also, the custom of each and every region is different and each region celebrates it with their respective customs. But the ultimate aim of the festival remains the same throughout the country that is spreading prosperity, togetherness, and joy.
Charity on Makar Sankranti
Charity is also an important part of the festival. Donating wheat, rice, and sweets to the needy and poor is part of the festival. It’s a belief, that one who donates with an open heart then God will bring prosperity and happiness in his life and remove every difficulty from the person’s life. That is the reason it is called Khichdi in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
To sum it up, we can say that it is a festival of great importance. Besides, it is important not only from a religious point of view but also from a scientific view too. In addition, it is a festival of happiness and joy and socializing with people. The true aim of the festival is to be respectful to others and live your life in peace and harmony with others.
Above all, be sweet to people just like the til and jaggery that unites to form a mouthwatering delicacy.
FAQs about Essay on Makar Sankranti
Q.1 Why we celebrate Makar Sankranti?
A.1 We celebrate Makar Sankranti when the sun enters the Capricorn (Zodiac Sign). Also, the day started to grow longer and night start to fall shorter.
Q.2 Why people wear black on Makar Sankranti?
A.2 Sankranti always falls in the month of January which is a cold month. Black is the color that absorbs more heat than any other color it also keeps the body warm. Besides, Marathi’s wear black because they consider it auspicious.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp