500+ Words Essay on Mothers Love
There is nothing that can come close to the love that a mother feels for her children. Women are inherently good mothers. Till birth women carry their young and then continue their love & affection throughout their childhood and even into adulthood. Every Mother always makes sure that their children are safe and happy throughout their childhood. It is the love for their child that a mother feels that drives these feelings. No one can describe in words the feeling that a mother has towards her children. In fact, most people do not understand unless they become a mother themselves. Love always encourages us in any falls which come in life. She is the only person who has no demands except our best future.
Mother as a Caretaker
A Mother always wants best for her child and never compromise on anything related to her child. Parents protect their child from any difficult situation and provide him all comfort that they can afford. Mothers love is not only about pampering her child but also about letting her child know the moral and cultural values.
A good upbringing makes the better future of a person and a mother does an excellent job to give the best future for her child. She converts a house into a home; she works as a superwoman because to keep managing household works and to fulfill all family members’ requirement on time is no easy task at all.
If we talk about working ladies than we can’t even imagine how she would manage all things together. I am proud of my mother who has nurtured me along with doing a job and also managing home properly.
Read 500 Words Essay on Mother here
Mother as a Best Friend
After birth, a child finds his mom as the first friend who plays with him along with extra care and nourishment. She interacts with her child as a friend and keeps watching all her child’s activities.
A mother never feels tired while playing with her child and always fulfills all his demands without thinking of her. A mother is like an angel for her child.
Mother as a Mentor
Without any expectation, a mother keeps on working for the betterment of her child. She plays all roles including mom like a mentor, a teacher, a friend, a caretaker.
She loves her child more than any other thing in this world but sometimes she becomes little strict towards her child for making him capable to fight with different circumstances comes in life. Mother gives us that power with which we become able to accept them and get success.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Mother – A Special Person of Our Life
When a child born; it is the mother who easily understands the feelings or requirements of her child. She spends every second around her child for fulfilling his all needs. Since childhood, our mother keeps telling us what is wrong and what is right in a manner to build us as a good human being and also encourage us to do good things in life.
She loves and cares us without any personal greed. The fragrance of a mother can easily be recognized by her newborn child. Since birth, a child is being observed by his mother. For providing a child all comforts she does all needful.
All mothers are pure by heart and want all the best things in their child’s life whether it is any toy, clothing, education and the values. Motherhood is the best part of life a lady can have. It is a full-time job without any salary but it worth’s a lot for a child. Mother’s love is something that can feel, mothers love is like a blessing by God, mothers love is everything. People who escape from the love of their mothers are really very unfortunate.
Conclusion
We as a child always take our mother for granted but without her our life becomes worthless. Mother is a precious gift by God which we need to keep with love and care. She does her job of motherhood with a pure heart and complete devotion. The first teacher is a mother for any child and if he keeps learning life’s lessons under her guidance nothing can stop him in achieving the heights of success.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp