500+ Words Essay on Motivation
Everyone suggests other than the person lack motivation, or directly suggests the person remain motivated. But, no one ever tells what is the motivation of how one can stay motivated. Motivation means to face the obstacle and find an inspiration that helps you to go through tough times. In addition, it helps you to move further in life.
Meaning of Motivation
Motivation is something that cannot be understood with words but with practice. It means to be moved by something so strongly that it becomes an inspiration for you.
Furthermore, it is a discipline that helps you to achieve your life goals and also helps to be successful in life.
Besides, it the most common practice that everyone does whether it is your boss in office or a school teacher or a university professor everyone motivates others in a way or other.
Role of Motivation
It is a strong tool that helps to get ahead in life. For being motivated we need a driving tool or goal that keeps us motivated and moves forward. Also, it helps in being progressive both physically and mentally.
Moreover, your goal does not be to big and long term they can be small and empowering. Furthermore, you need the right mindset to be motivated.
Besides, you need to push your self towards your goal no one other than you can push your limit. Also, you should be willing to leave your comfort zone because your true potential is going to revel when you leave your comfort zone.
Types of Motivation
Although there are various types of motivation according to me there are generally two types of motivation that are self- motivation and motivation by others.
Self-motivation- It refers to the power of someone to stay motivated without the influence of other situations and people. Furthermore, self-motivated people always find a way to reason and strength to complete a task. Also, they do not need other people to encourage them to perform a challenging task.
Motivation by others- This motivation requires help from others as the person is not able to maintain a self-motivated state. In this, a person requires encouragement from others. Also, he needs to listen to motivational speeches, a strong goal and most importantly and inspiration.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of Motivation
Motivation is very important for the overall development of the personality and mind of the people. It also puts a person in action and in a competitive state. Furthermore, it improves efficiency and desire to achieve the goal. It leads to stability and improvement in work.
Above all, it satisfies a person’s needs and to achieve his/her goal. It helps the person to fight his negative attitude. The person also tries to come out of his/her comfort zone so that she/ he can achieve the goal.
To conclude, motivation is one of the key elements that help a person to be successful. A motivated person tries to push his limits and always tries to improve his performance day by day. Also, the person always gives her/his best no matter what the task is. Besides, the person always tries to remain progressive and dedicated to her/his goals.
FAQs about Motivation Essay
Q.1 Define what is motivation fit.
A.1 This refers to a psychological phenomenon in which a person assumes or expects something from the job or life but gets different results other than his expectations. In a profession, it is a primary criterion for determining if the person will stay or leave the job.
Q.2 List some best motivators.
A.2 some of the best motivators are:
Inspiration
Fear of failure
Power of Rejection
Passion
Don’t pity your self
Be assertive
Stay among positive and motivated people
Be calm and visionary
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp