500+ Words Essay on My Aim in Life 
It is a well-known fact that a person without an aim is a person without a life. All the creatures in this universe have one or another specific aim. It is common for all things. As the human is the best creature among them all, he has been given a right to select what he wants to do in his life. The mindset of each and every person is of its own type. Therefore, his aim in life will also be different from others.
Life is God’s greatest blessing; nevertheless, if there is no purpose and aim, life is useless and meaningless. Every one of us is born with a mission. It is essential to have a goal in life. If you want to pursue something in your life, you must have a goal. Student life is the ideal time to set goals. A person with a defined objective outperforms someone who does not have a goal in life. And if you don’t know what you want, you’ll never be motivated to work hard. To live a good life and deal with challenges, we need a proper plan. As a result, it is critical for everyone to have a life goal.
What is the Aim?
In a generic term purpose or goal is an aim. A person in his childhood might want to be a famous astronaut or a movie star or a police officer or something like that.  Aim means to intend, to try, or to aspire. Each aim generally starts with a declaration of setting the goal, then breaking it into smaller pieces over a set timeline. Thus to achieve it one has to overcome many obstacles and setbacks from time to time.
Importance of aim in life:
There is a popular saying that a man without an aim is like an aim without a rudder. It means a ship without a rudder faces danger. Thus similarly a man without aim cannot reach towards his goal of life. He stumbles in his way of life.
So every person must have a definite aim. So, the aim of life is to give your life a purpose and meaning. Certainly, it is done by finding out what truly matters to you. Your purpose is to create more joy in life or to show others how you can live your life in the best possible manner.
How to find your Aim?
If you try to accomplish things that aren’t meant for you, that doesn’t offer you a sense of belonging and don’t provide you inner peace and happiness, you’re not in the correct field. You are not pursuing your goals and passions.
Everyone is unique in their own way. One may excel in academics while the other may be skilled in photography. Some people are born to aid the needy, others with bright brains, still others to pursue art and architecture, and still others simply write their way through life and become authors.
Simply close your eyes and think about something you appreciate the most on a larger scale, and that’s all there is to it. That is your life’s passion and goal. All you have to do is get closer to the part and shoot at it. By just following your passion, you can make your goal a reality.
Primary Aim in life:
A person can set the aim of his life by applying various parameters in life. Some of these maybe –
To live with a specific purpose and passion every day
To live for others by helping them.
To become a great father, mother, son or daughter.
To become a wildly successful entrepreneur and businessman
To live a healthy, active and fit life
To live with financial freedom in life.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Types of Aim:
Different people have different aims. Some people may want to become a doctor while others may want to start their own business. Likewise if engineering appeals, to some, the army may be the attraction for others. Some aim at becoming a teacher while social service or politics suits others. So different people adopt different aims according to their inclination or taste or perception about life.
How to Choose the right Aim of life?
It is the responsibility of the parents and the teachers to persuade their wards to select a profession according to their aptitude. Thus one can say that the right aim means right life and the wrong aim means wrong life. So, we should be very cautious while deciding on our aim.
Certainly, this is the most difficult problem that a young man faces is the selection of a profession.  If a person does not choose his aim rightly, he will be always misfitted in his life. Thus, the best aim would be for one in which one feels happy always and he can do something worthwhile. Also at the same time, he assures about bright prospects in life.
Everyone should set a goal that is personal to them and will always inspire them to reach new heights. Therefore, don’t follow the mob and mimic the ambitions of friends.
How to Achieve the Aim in Life?
We should never make wealth or power the end of our existence, whether we succeed or fail in accomplishing our aim. We must never chase the celebrity bubble. Our goal should be to achieve our set aim solely for our own good, for our own enjoyment and satisfaction.
Some non-avoidable points which must be remembered are-
Be Proactive
No More Negativity
Always be balanced
Fully Focused
Break it down
Embrace failure
Tell everyone
Get help and guidance
Track your progress
Visualize the end result
Reset the action plan based on feedback
We should also jot down and make a list of all our aims to be achieved. This activity will help you in a lot many ways. A few of them are:
It may help you live longer and be healthier.
If others ask, you will be an inspiration to them.
It will be a guide to the best version of yourself.
Your aim preferences will be prioritised based on your requirements.
It will serve as a progress tracker as you work your way up the achievement ladder.
Conclusion:
Thus it is a fact that setting an aim and acting to achieve it is very important for a successful life. Everyone must start working towards it. The timely execution of an action plan with a proactive attitude is the key to success. One of the best ways to stay motivated is by visualizing the change and likewise by achieving step by step milestones.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp