500 Words Essay on My Favourite Author
We all have grown up reading books and novels of various genres. Everyone has a specific author which they like the most. We all love them for different reasons whether it is for liking their way or writing or the characters they make. Nonetheless, everyone has at least one favorite author they never get bored of.
As an avid reader, I have always enjoyed spending my time with my nose dug into books. I got into the habit of reading from an early age. I began with Enid Blyton who wrote adventures of Noddy. However, when I started reading Roald Dahl’s books, he instantly became my favorite. I can read his books all over again without a second doubt. After he became my favorite author, I came to know about his personal life.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Roald Dahl’s Life
Roald Dahl was a children’s writer who entertained millions of kids with his unique and quirky characters. He filled our childhood with tales of giants, witches, trots, magical chocolate factories and more.
Roald Dahl was born in Wales in 1916. He had a rather sad childhood. Dahl was sent to boarding school at an early age. He was a victim of bullying where older boys picked on him. He was not a great writer in his adolescence age.
Furthermore, he served as a hurricane fighter pilot in World War II. He was sent back to the US after getting injured during the war. Upon being asked to write about his injury experience, Dahl started writing. The piece was so good, they published it in the newspaper, which was the beginning of his writing career.
Roald Dahl then married an actress, Patricia, with whom he had five children. It was only after having children of his own that Dahl began to write. He wrote with a pencil in a yellow paper in his little but. His books sold millions of copies worldwide. Dahl suffered from a blood disease and passed away in 1990, after winning the hearts of millions of kids.
Why do I like Roald Dahl?
Roald Dahl was an excellent writer. He knew how to keep the minds of children intrigued. Some of his famous books were Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, The BFG, The Gremlins and more.
I like Roald Dahl for his sense of humor and creativity. Most importantly, the illustrations in his books always fascinated me. The quirky characters with unique personalities were a delight to read. Furthermore, Roald Dahl has a way with words. His language is so simple yet so different, that it makes it easy for children to understand what he is trying to convey.
Moreover, all of his books had lessons worth learning. Everyone must read at least one Roald Dahl book for the sheer joy they bring. In addition, we must suggest children read his books for going on exciting adventures full of giants, witches, trots, chocolate factories and more. In conclusion, the illustrations in Roald Dahl’s books made it even more interesting to read them. His books are relevant even today and the lessons still apply to this world and will do forever.
FAQs on My Favourite Author
Q.1 How would you describe Roald Dahl’s life?
A.1 Roald Dahl’s life was fine, not good, not bad. He had a sad childhood but he gained popularity after writing children’s books.
Q.2 Why were Roald Dahl’s books such a hit amongst children?
A.2 Roald Dahl wrote funny and creative books for children with quirky characters. He filled the childhood of million kids with tales of witches, giants, trots, giant peaches and more.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp