500+ Words Essay on My House
Essay on My House: The world consists of all types of people. Some are fortunate enough to have amenities while some aren’t. Especially in a country like India, where the majority of the population lives below the poverty line. To own a house here is no less than a luxury, one which I thankfully have. I am blessed to be protected by four walls and a roof.
It is my parent’s hard work that has given us this blessing. Many people in today’s world are always complaining about the things they don’t have. The person who has a house wants a bungalow. The one who owns a bungalow wants a palace. The one living in a palace wants an island. This never-ending cycle goes on. However, if we look at the people below us rather than those who are above us, we will be happier.
An Underrated Blessing
Having a house is an underrated blessing. If you have not realized it yet, you can go and ask any person who doesn’t have a house. Only then will you realize what a great blessing it is to have a house. Houses do not necessarily have to be luxuriously filled with the latest amenities. A house is complete if you have a roof over your head.
Moreover, if you have your loved ones around, then there can be no greater blessing. You must realize the importance of your house before it gets too late. Even I never knew how precious my house was up until one incident that changed my outlook.
We had house help growing up. The maid who used to work for us always came early in the morning and would leave in the evening. Even when my mother asked her to leave early as she completed the work on time, she never did that. On the other hand, she used to do extra work. Later we found out that she never really had a house. It was just a hut which had one chair and one folding. And that she liked spending time most of the time at our house because she had access to all basic facilities like electricity and clean water.
This incident made me realize how I took my house for granted. It is truly an underrated blessing which is overlooked by others. We must value our homes before it gets too late.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My House
I live in my ancestral home with my grandparents, parents, and siblings. My grandfather built this house with his hard work. It has four rooms, one kitchen, two bathrooms, and a patio. My house is at least fifty years old.
I admire the beauty of my house. The vintage vibes make it even more beautiful. My grandparents have a small garden in the patio which adds greenery to my house. Moreover, it also has two trees. One is a pomegranate tree and the other is a Henna tree. They provide us with shade and sweet fruits.
My house has very high ceilings as it was made many years back. It has vintage switchboards which give it a very unique look. My house is situated in the middle of four roads. It is not joined to any other house. My house has four entrances from each side.
Whenever my friends come over to my house, they click a lot of pictures. Even my relatives love the interior of the house which is a mix of modern and vintage architecture. My house is colored in brown and beige color and it stands out in our locality.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp