500+ Words Essay on My School Library
 A school library is a structure within the school that houses a collection of books, audio-visual material and other content that serves common use to meet the educational, informative and recreational needs of the users. The chief objective of libraries is to meet the academic needs of the particular educational institution which it serves. Besides serving students in their studies and teachers in their research school, libraries aim at creating interest in reading amongst the students who get the best of resources and environment here.
Types of Books
The types of books we can have access to in school libraries are fiction books, non-fiction books, reference books, literature books, biographies, General Knowledge books, Fables and folktales, cookbooks and craft books, poetry books, books in a series, and wordless books.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of School Library
It provides us with quality fiction and nonfiction books that encourage us to read more for pleasure and enrich our intellectual, artistic, cultural, social and emotional growth. The ambiance of the school library is perfect for learning without getting disturbed.
This makes it easy for us to learn and grasp faster. It provides teachers the access to professional development, relevant information and reference material to plan and implement effective learning programs.
Thus. School library is helpful to every member of the school community whether its students, teachers or any other staff member. It helps gain skills and knowledge for personal development.
School library has a positive impact on the academic performance of the students. It helps us develop the overall skills necessary to succeed in the modern-day digital and social environment. It is important to develop the habit of visiting the library regularly.
Role of a School Librarian
Librarian has an important role to play in the effective functioning of the school library. Librarian has the essential skills to guide and support the library users learning, and help them develop into independent readers and learners. School librarian mainly performs the role of a teacher, information specialist, instructional partner, and program administrator.
Librarians are not merely the caretakers of books anymore they are the consultants, information providers, instructional readers, curriculum designers, and teachers. They can help students in achieving their goals.
The setup of the libraries has also changed into more like classroom setup. The role of the school librarian is to empower others with resources, information, skills, and knowledge and establish flexible learning and teaching environment.
School librarian is like teaching staff and has a vital role to play in supporting literacy and impact students’ learning in a positive way. School librarian supports the learning of the students and helps them develop into efficient independent learners and readers.
Library and Education are Interrelated
Education and library are interrelated and fundamentally co-exist with each other. Education is the process of gaining knowledge, values, skills, habits, and beliefs. It is the social process in which children are subjected to the influence of the school environment to attain social competence personnel development.
Education is the outcome of the knowledge and experience acquired. Library, on the other hand, is the source and storehouse of knowledge, information, and resources vital for the leap in the advancement of knowledge. Libraries enhance the cause of education and research.
A library plays an important role in meeting the growing needs of people in literacy. The library is essential for self-education, a means of information and knowledge. Education is the complex social process of gaining knowledge and experience formally. In involves a system used for the development of the students. Library provides spiritual, inspirational, informative and interesting reading experience.
Conclusion
The library facilitates each student with access to essential resources and learning material for a smooth learning process. It plays a vital role in a student’s life. The design, modern tools, and strategies of the school libraries change with the changing times. The library is thus a leap in the advancement of the literacy provided in classrooms. Education and library cannot exist alone and are inseparable. The library is an essential part of the educational system.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp