500+ Words Essay on My School Life
Our school life is always the best time of our lives. Furthermore, it is the only time where I can meet my friends. My School time is the only time which I enjoy a lot. I get to play many games. Also, I get to study my favorite subject. Above all, I get to play with my group of friends and spend a good time with them.
My School
My School is the second-largest school in the entire city. Furthermore, it is among the most renowned institutions of the state. It has two very large fields. We call it the front and the backfield. On the front, we play sports like football and hockey because of its’ soft ground. However, the back is to play cricket. This is because it has a pitch on it and the ground was hard.
Moreover, my school also has a basketball court where students practice almost every day. My favorite is the swimming pool which is quite big. So I never miss any swimming periods whenever I have any. Further my school has two halls. One is the new gymnasium and the other is the old one. The students play sports badminton and table tennis in it. Also if we have any literary function, it always takes place in the new gymnasium.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My School Events
Every year in October we have a Literary and Cultural Festival. In this, students from different schools come to participate. Furthermore, it was a three-day function. This first day is of Western music, in this, the students sing western songs. Various bands from different schools participate in this. The second day is of Hindi music, in which we get to listen to some of the most beautiful voices.
The third day is the choreography. This is the best day of all three. Some, my friends, are really great dancers, so they always perform on this day. Moreover, we get to see some of the best dance acts on the day. These are the most memorable and enjoyable days of the entire school year.
Furthermore, at the end of every year, we have a P.T. Display. In this, the students from every batch have to perform an act. To perform this act our teachers start teaching us one month before the event. We all enjoy a lot during these days as we didn’t have to study for the first three periods. Moreover, on the day of the event, various competitions also take place. I always take part in an inter-house relay because I am good at it.
At last, before the farewell, there is a concert held. In this, we perform for our senior and the retired staff to wish them goodbye. It is a mixed concert in which we could perform any act. Whether it be singing, dancing or drama, everything is welcomed in this.
I have always admired my seniors because some of them had great achievements during their School life. And staying with them for so many years has enlisted an attachment. Furthermore, I have seen them spending their last days in college. And it was truly heartbreaking on wishing them goodbye.
Some FAQs
Q1. What is the best thing about school life?
A1. The best thing about school life is that we don’t have any burden on our shoulders. All we have to do is eat, sleep, and, study.
Q2. Apart from studies what do we get to learn from our school lives?
A2. In our school lives, we get to learn a lot. Our school teaches us manners and goodwill and enlist good qualities in us.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp