500 Words Essay on National Flag of India
A flag is the most important symbol of a country. Similarly, the national flag of India is a symbol of paramount significance for India. The national flag of India is a symbol of honour, patriotism, and freedom for the country. It represents the unity of the people of India in spite of the differences in language, culture, religion, class, etc. Most noteworthy, the Indian flag is a horizontal rectangular tricolour. Furthermore, the flag of India consists of saffron, white, and green.
History of the National Flag of India
The proposal of the flag to the Indian National Congress was made by Mahatma Gandhi in 1921. Furthermore, the flag was designed by Pingali Venkayya. In the centre of the flag was a traditional spinning wheel. Then a modification of the design took place to include a white stripe in the centre. This modification took place for other religious communities and also to create a background for the spinning wheel.
To avoid the sectarian associations with the colour scheme, the experts chose three colours. Most noteworthy, these three colours were saffron, white, and green. The colour saffron represents courage and sacrifice. Furthermore, the colour white denotes peace and truth. Moreover, the colour green symbolizes faith and chivalry.
A specially constituted Constituent Assembly, a few days before the independence, made an important decision. Furthermore, this decision was that the Indian flag must be acceptable to all communities and parties. Nevertheless, there was no change in the colours of the flag of India. However, there was replacement of the charkha by the Asoka chakra. Moreover, this Asoka chakra represents the eternal wheel of law.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Display of the National Flag of India
The rules say that when two flags are fully spread out horizontally on a wall behind a podium, their hoists must be towards each other. Furthermore, the saffron stripes should be uppermost. When the flag display is on a short flagpole, then the mounting should be at an angle to the wall. Moreover, the angle is such that the flag is draped tastefully from it. When flags display occurs on crossed staffs, then hoist should be towards each other.
One must never use the national flag of India to cover tables, lecterns, podiums or buildings. When the display of the flag takes place indoors, then it must always be on the right. This is because; right is the position of authority. Furthermore, the flag must always be on the speaker’s right hand, when the display of flag occurs next to a speaker. Most noteworthy, whenever the display of flag takes place, it should be completely spread out.
In conclusion, the national flag of India is the pride of our nation. Furthermore, the flag of India represents the sovereignty of the country. Most noteworthy, it is a moment of sheer proudness and happiness for every Indian to watch the national flag flying. The national flag of India certainly deserves the utmost respect of every citizen of India.
FAQ on Essay on National Flag of India
Q1 What are the three colours of the national flag of India?
A1 The three colours of the national flag of India are saffron, white, and green.
Q2 What does the colour saffron represents in the national flag of India?
A2 The colour saffron in the national flag of India represents courage and sacrifice.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp