500+ Words Essay on National Constitution Day
We celebrate National Constitution Day or Samvidhan Divas on 26th November every year. The significance of this day is that on this day in the year 1949, the Constituent Assembly of India adopted the Constitution of India. However, the Constitution of India came into force on 26th January 1950. We celebrate 26th January as Republic Day every year.
Declaration of National Constitution Day
On 11th October 2015, while laying the foundation stone of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar’s Statue of Equality memorial at Indu Mills compound, in Mumbai, the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi made a declaration. On 19th November 2015, the Government of India officially declared 26th November as the National Constitution Day by notification in the Gazette.
The year 2015 marks the 125th birth anniversary of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar. Baba Saheb was the chairman of the drafting committee of the Constituent Assembly. He played a very significant role in the drafting of the Indian Constitution. The idea behind choosing this day to celebrate is to spread the importance of the Constitution as well as the ideas and thoughts of Baba Saheb Ambedkar. It is noteworthy here that previously we celebrated this day as National Law Day.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Celebrations on National Constitution Day
Since the year of 2015 was the 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, the Government of India decided to celebrate this year in a massive way. For this purpose, a special committee was formed under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi. Various ministries and departments organized various programs throughout the year with a view to spreading the thoughts and ideas of Baba Saheb. However, National Constitution Day is not a public holiday.
The first National Constitution Day was celebrated by the various government departments. According to the instructions of the Department of Education and Literacy, all the students of all the schools, read the preamble of the constitution. The students were also given information about the salient features of the Indian Constitution through lectures in each school.
Also, quiz and essay competitions both online and offline on the constitution of India were organized. As per the instructions of the Department of Higher Education, various universities were asked to arrange mock parliamentary debates in colleges. The University Grants Commission (UGC) also organized an all-India quiz competition at Ambedkar University, Lucknow.
The Ministry of External Affairs also instructed all overseas Indian schools to celebrate 26th November as National Constitution Day. It asked the embassies to translate the Indian constitution into the local language of that nation and thereafter distribute it to various academies, libraries, and faculties of Indology. The Department of Sport also organized a symbolic run named “Run for Equality”. On 26th November 2015, there was also held a special session of Parliament in order to give tribute to the constitution and Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Also, on this occasion, the Parliament House was decorated and illuminated.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp