500+ Words Essay on Nature Vs Nurture
The topic of nature vs nurture is always a great topic of debate among people. There are great men who did work hard to achieve great heights. But still, they are some people who didn’t work that hard yet still managed to be successful.
In other words, it is a debate between hard work and talent. In the grooming of a person, the nurturing is essential. However, still, there are some individuals who were never born in a great environment. Yet by their sense of knowledge and intellectualism created a special place in the hearts of people.
Nature
Nature has given us many things in life and one of them is talents. Either we are born as the only individual in our family or it is in our genes. Furthermore, nature plays a vital role in deciding the future of a child. Many singers in this era are born with beautiful voices. They did not need any nurturing. Their talent took them to heights they couldn’t even imagine.
For instance, some of the great legends like Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosle, Kishor Kumar had soulful voices. Also, they were the ones who sang from their childhood days. They started their careers and became successful at a very early age. Moreover, they did not get much teaching but still are the legends of all time.
Apart from singing, there are other talents that nature has given us. Various scientists like Albert Einstein, Isaac Newton, Galileo Galilei, started their work in their teenage years. They had amazing intellectualism, because of which they got recognition in their entire world. Furthermore, these scientists did not get any mentoring. They did everything on their own. Because they had extraordinary intelligence and ambition in life.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Nurture
On the other hand, the nurturing of a person is important. Because hard work beats talent. With proper mentoring and practice, a person can achieve success in life. If a person has an environment in which everybody is in the same profession and are successful in it.
Then there is a great chance that the person will land up in the same profession and will achieve heights. Because in that environment he will get proper nurturing.
Furthermore, he will also be able to perform better over the years. “Hard work always pays off”. This idiom is always true and nobody can deny that. If a person has true dedication then it can beat talent. Various singers, dancers, musicians, businessmen, entrepreneurs did work really hard for years.
And because of that, they got recognition in the entire world. In these categories, musicians are who achieved heights only with their hard work and constant practice.
It is true that there are no shortcuts to success. Various known legends like Bob Dylon. Lou Reed, Elvis Persley, Michael Jackson worked hard throughout their lives. As a result, they were some of the great personalities in the entire world.
Some FAQs
Q1. What is the meaning of nurture?
A1. Nurture means the way a person grooms himself. This is done in order to achieve success. Nurturing is essential in a person’s life because it can be a way a person can cross the barrier and do something great. Moreover nurture also means the mentoring and care a person is getting in an environment.
Q2. What is the difference between Nature and Nurture?
A2. The main difference between nature and nurture is, nature is the talent a person inherits from his parents or is God gifted. While nurturing is hard work and mentoring of a person in a particular field. So that he may excel in that field.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp