500+ Words Essay on Peacock
Peacock is a bird that carries huge national importance in India. Most noteworthy, the bird is famous for its beautiful vibrant colours. The Peacock is popular for its spectacular beauty. It certainly has a hypnotic appearance. Watching it dance during the Monsoon season is a great pleasure experience. Its beautiful colours instantly bring comfort to the eyes. The Peacock has significant religious involvement in Indian traditions. Due to this, Peacock was declared as the National Bird of India.
Physical Appearance of Peacock
Peacocks are the males of the species. They have a stunningly beautiful appearance. Due to this, the bird gets a huge appreciation from around the World. Furthermore, their length from the tip of the beak to the end of the train is 195 to 225 cm. Also, their average weight is 5 kg. Most noteworthy, the head, neck, and breast of Peacock are of iridescent blue colour. They also have patches of white around the eyes.
Peacock has a crest of feathers on top of the head. The most remarkable feature of the Peacock is the extraordinary beautiful tail. This tail is called a train. Furthermore, this train becomes fully developed after 4 years of hatching. The 200 odd display feathers grow from the back of the bird. Also, these feathers are part of the enormous elongated upper tail. The train feathers do not have barbs to hold the feathers in place. Therefore, the association of the feathers is loose.
The Peacock colours are a result of intricate microstructures. Furthermore, these microstructures create optical phenomena. Also, each train feather ends in an eye-catching oval cluster. The back wings of the Peacock are greyish brown in colour. Another important thing to know is that the back wings are short and dull.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Behaviour of Peacock
The Peacock is famous for the striking elegant display of feathers. The Peacocks spread their train and quiver it for courtship display. Also, the number of eyespots in a male’s courtship display affects mating success.
Peacocks are omnivorous species. Furthermore, they survive on seeds, insects, fruits and even small mammals. Also, they live in small groups. A group probably has a single male and 3-5 females. They mostly stay on the upper branches of a tall tree to escape predators. Peacocks prefer to run rather take a flight when in danger. Most noteworthy, Peacocks are quite agile on foot.
To sum it up, Peacock is a bird of mesmerizing charm. It is certainly a fascinating colourful bird that has been the pride of India for centuries. Peacock is a bird of exquisite beauty. Due to this, they have been a source of inspiration for artists. Catching a glimpse of this bird can bring delight to the heart. Peacock is a true representative of India’s fauna. It certainly is the pride of India.
FAQ on Peacock
Q1 What are the colour of a Peacock’s head and neck?
A1 The colour of a Peacock’s head and neck is iridescent blue.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp