500+ Words Essay on Pollution Caused due to Festivals
India is the country with the largest number of festivals, and the reason is we have diverse cultures in our country. Festivals are beautiful, they bring people together, fills our lives with happiness, joy, and peace. We celebrate a number of festivals in India. But there also some cons to these festivals. They harm our environment and mother Earth. Though we do not have intentions of harming nature, we do it unknowingly through following some traditions while celebrating festivals. In this essay, we will see how festivals cause pollution.
There are 3 main types of pollutions caused by festivals – Air pollution, Water pollution, and Noise pollution. Let us see them one by one.
Air Pollution
Diwali is one such festival which spreads a lot of air pollution. In Diwali, it is a tradition to burn and light crackers. It is really fun and enjoyable to burn crackers but very few are aware that crackers are very harmful to the environment.
Nowadays, there are so many different types of crackers that just spread more and more air pollution. Kids love playing with these crackers, but they are not aware that it is polluting the air we breathe. This must be stopped, we should teach our kids and spread awareness about how harmful crackers are for the environment.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Noise Pollution
No matter which festival it is, noise pollution is a part of every one of them. Why? Because we love playing songs on loud noises at any event. Be it someone’s wedding, birthday or big festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Dussehra, or Janmashtmi. The level at which people play music during festivals is very harmful to ears. It especially disturbs so many students preparing for their exams. We should try to celebrate festivals in as much as the peaceful way we can. It should not disturb or harm anyone.
Water Pollution
Water is a very important part of life. We cannot live without water. And in festivals like Holi, Ganesh Chaturti water gets so much wasted and polluted. Holi is the festival of colors, but we have made it a tradition to throw water balloons on everyone.
It was never meant to be celebrated in such ways. Also, in Ganesh Chaturti we do “visarjan” (immersion of God’s statue in the lakes). These statues pollute the water and harm the life of fishes and other aquatic animals. It is good to follow a tradition, but if it is going to affect our daily life and health in the future we should try to avoid such traditions.
Conclusion
Festivals are one of the most important things in our life. So many people set their goals at some festivals. People forget their past differences and do a new beginning. It increases love, joy, happiness, and peace in our life. But we should also be aware that we are not harming our nature and mother earth while enjoying the festival. Nature is all we have, and it is the most beautiful thing. We should not ruin it and try to save it as much as possible.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp