500 Words Essay on Pollution Due to Diwali
Diwali is the most famous Indian festival. Moreover, people of all religions and castes celebrate it. Furthermore, people call this festival as the festival of lights. However, there is one negative side associated with this great festival. This negative side is the massive amount of pollution which the festival of Diwali generates. The primary cause of this harmful pollution is certainly the use of firecrackers.
Types of Pollution on Diwali
Air pollution is certainly the biggest type of pollution on Diwali. Moreover, during the festival of Diwali, air pollution rises to dangerously high levels. Most noteworthy, there is the emission of a great amount of smoke on Diwali. This certainly makes the air very harmful to breathe. Also, this harmful effect of burning crackers remains for many days after Diwali. Furthermore, air pollution is also quite harmful to various animals and birds.
Land pollution is another significant type of pollution during Diwali. This certainly results from the leftover pieces of the burnt crackers. Furthermore, it can take many weeks to clean these. Most noteworthy, these pieces are non-biodegradable in nature. Hence, they cannot be disposed of so easily. Also, they turn toxic gradually with time.
Noise pollution is a major problem during Diwali. Firecrackers cause a tremendous amount of noise pollution. Most noteworthy, this noise pollution is pretty damaging to hearing. Also, noise pollution is a major problem for animals, old people, students, and sick people.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
How to Prevent Pollution During Diwali
First of all, people must strictly avoid burning firecrackers. Maximum pollution during Diwali occurs due to the burning of firecrackers. Furthermore, there is a release of toxins during the burning of firecrackers. This certainly makes it hard for people to breathe.  Moreover, loud noises from firecrackers give anxiety attacks to many people and animals. Therefore, people must use eco-friendly crackers. These eco-friendly crackers produce a low amount of noise. Nevertheless, avoiding the use of firecrackers is the best solution.
Diwali is the festival of lights. To celebrate Diwali without lights is unthinkable. Furthermore, many people make use of electricity for lightening purposes. However, one must use diyas over electricity. Most noteworthy, the diyas or earthen lamps are bio-degradable in nature.
Cleaning up is an essential way of preventing pollution. The festival of Diwali ends up with a lot of garbage. After Diwali, the roads are filled with plastic, paper, chemicals, and other types of garbage. Hence, each individual must take the initiative to clean the streets and surroundings after Diwali. Most noteworthy, each individual must clean up his own mess.
Another efficient way of preventing pollution during Diwali is by using an air purifier. The level of air contamination significantly increases during Diwali. Therefore, one must make sure to keep the inside environment pollution-free. This way, people inside the house or office would be able to breathe safe and pure air. Most noteworthy, this is achievable by using air purifiers during Diwali.
To sum it up, Diwali is one of the happiest occasions of happiness in India. Let us not let this beautiful festival be marred by the evil of pollution. Most noteworthy, the festival must immediately become environmentally friendly. The government must take appropriate measures to ensure a pollution less Diwali.
FAQs on Pollution Due to Diwali
Q1 What are the various types of pollution caused by Diwali?
A1 The various types of pollution caused by Diwali are air pollution, land pollution, and noise pollution.
Q2 State any one way to prevent pollution during Diwali?
A2 One way to prevent pollution during Diwali is avoiding the burning of firecrackers.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp