500+ Words Essay Population Explosion Essay
Population explosion refers to the number of people that live in an area. It is a major issue for developing countries. Also, the government is not taking proper measures to control this problem. Besides, it generates many issues in the country that cause many problems for people.
Meaning of Population Explosion
It refers to the rapid increase in the population of an area among human beings. Furthermore, it is a situation where the economy is not capable of coping with the increasing demand of its population.
Causes of Population Explosion
The cause of the population explosion includes many factors and reasons. These includes:
Increase in the birth rate- Due to lack of control on delivery and unawareness of people the birth rate is increasing rapidly. In addition, the gap between death and birth has gone way wider than what we can think of. Furthermore, the birth rate has increased many folds in comparison to the death rate.
A decrease in infant mortality rate- Mortality rate refers to the number of death of infants below the age of 6 months. Due to science and technology, we are able to minimize this rate and now only a few cases of death are known per thousand death.
The life expectancy growth- Earlier the life expectancy of people was around 55-60 years. But due to better and improved medical facilities, we are now able to increase the life expectancy of people. Now the average age of a person increased to 70-75 years.
Besides, these better living conditions, good quality food, better nutrition, and better sanitation facilities also helped in increasing life expectancy.
High level of illiteracy- The literacy level of women is one of the biggest problems of family planning. In India, people pay very little importance to women’s education and marry them at an early age. That’s why they do not have knowledge about birth control methods and the use of contraceptives.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Effects of Population Explosion
The population explosion affects natural resources and many sectors of the economy in many ways:
Unemployment- Due to the increase in the population the demand for jobs and employment also increases. But, due to a lack of resources and employment opportunities, there are millions of jobless people in India.
In addition, the condition of unemployment is growing day by day. To face this problem most the people are either migrating to other countries for better job opportunities.
Poverty- Due to the large population there a large number of people who belong to below the poverty line and they do not have adequate knowledge of the overpopulation of the country. Also, they are the major contributor to a high birth rate.
Prevention of population explosion
There are various methods by which we can prevent a population explosion. The government can take measures to aware of the population about the various methods that can help in controlling the population. Also, it should implement some strong campaign for family planning and birth control.
To sum it up, the population explosion has caused huge pressure on the surface of the earth. Also, we can control many issues of the earth by controlling population growth. Besides, many problems like food insecurity, illiteracy, poverty, and unemployment can be minimized by controlling the population.
FAQs about Population Explosion Essay
Q.1 What are the major reason for the population explosion?
A.1 The major factors that are responsible for population explosion are illiteracy, reduced mortality, increased birth rate, and an increase in life expectancy.
Q.2 What are the major reason for the population explosion in India?
A.2 The major reason for the population explosion in India are unemployment, large population, poverty and illiteracy, small health condition and several other problems.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp