500 Words Essay on PUBG Mobile Game Addiction
PUBG is a term you must have probably heard by now. It is the abbreviated form of PlayerUnknown’s Battleground. Basically, it is a video game which is a multiplayer battle royale game. It is very famous all over the world. However, the entertainment factor does not mean it is all good. The game has become viral and is played by billions of people. The players have become addicted to this game. Moreover, it is hampering their quality of life.

Impact of PUBG Mobile Game Addiction
When the game got released for Windows, it received rave reviews. Further, upon being released on mobile phones, it caught like wildfire. The craze for this game spread amongst all the age groups.
What started as a recreation game has now turned into an addiction. It is severely impacting the lives of the players and also resulting in various crimes. For instance, a boy killed himself due to PUBG mobile game addiction.
The game interferes greatly with the studies of a person. The students who should be studying waste their time on this game. This results in neglecting studies and also in reduced levels of concentration.
It is so because this PUBG mobile game addiction slows down their brain activity. Their ability to grasp things and focus just lowers. Even research suggests that the academic performance of PUBG players is dropping massively.
Similarly, the people who are working are also addicted to this game. It hampers their work and makes them lose the target of their goals. They are busy playing PUBG instead of focusing on their careers. Even more, than the players take leaves or skip meetings just to play this game endlessly. Due to this addiction, they also miss their deadlines and don’t fulfill their duties.
Furthermore, PUBG mobile game addiction ruins the relationships of people. It has even done so as there have been cases of breakups and divorces due to this game. People spend all their time on this time instead of with their family and friends. It strains their relationships and causes pain. Similarly, it has also resulted in many crimes of murder and suicides.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
How to Control PUBG Mobile Game Addiction?
We all know that excess of anything is bad, be it a video game or anything. However, one must also know that we can control any addiction by proper measures. To begin with, try to lessen the time you spend on the game. Leaving it all of a sudden is impractical so set aside a fixed time and try to play it in that specific one.
Similarly, try to divert your mind. Do not always stay indoors. Go out and indulge in physical activities. When you will have other things to do, your mind won’t go towards the game. So, meet your friends and take up other hobbies.
Moreover, try to spend time with your family instead of scrolling through the phone or playing your game. When you will be surrounded by your loved ones, you will not care about anything else. So, utilize your time carefully instead of playing PUBG.
FAQ on Essay on PUBG Mobile Game Addiction
Q.1 What is the impact of PUBG mobile game addiction?
A.1 PUBG mobile game is very harmful. It creates a constraint between personal relationships. Moreover, it also hampers the professional life of a person. Similarly, the youth waste their time and neglect their studies just to play this game.
Q.2 How to control PUBG Mobile game addiction?
A.2 There are many ways to control this addiction. One must set a specific time for their gaming. Moreover, always identify and avoid triggers. Moreover, try to divert your mind from the game and indulge in time with friends and family.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp