500+ Words Essay on Rainy Season
In this essay on rainy season, we are going to talk about the most beautiful season. Also, in some region this time of the year most annual rainfall takes place. Besides, both tropical and non-tropical areas receive rainfall according to their topographical position. Although, at some places, it last for a month but at some places it goes on for about three to four months. So, in this essay on rainy season, we will discuss the importance, months, and reasons for the rainy season.
Months of Rainy Season
The people of Indian subcontinent refer to rainy season as ‘monsoon’. Also, this season last in India for about 3 to four months. Apart from that, in different countries and in different geographical areas the duration of rainy season is not fixed. At some places like tropical rain forests rain occurs throughout the year while on the other hand places like Sahara Dessert receive rainfall very rarely.
Reasons for Rainy Season
Although the rainy season is a periodical occurrence that happens due to the change of flow of wind that carries clouds and c. When during the day earth surface temperature rises the surrounding air rise up and create a low-pressure zone. This pushes the moisture loaded winds from oceans towards the land. And when this moisture and clods reach the land they precipitate rain. Above all, this cycle continues for a period of time in the region and the season is called the rainy season.
Importance of Rainy Season
For countries like India where a large number of the population depends on agriculture rainy season play a noteworthy role. Also, the agriculture sector in India contributes around 20% to the GDP (Gross Domestic Product). Also, it employees above 500 million people of the nation.
Therefore, for economic conditions of countries like India monsoon is very essential. Also, the harvest of produce depends largely on the quality of rain. Apart from that, a prosperous monsoon will give the economy good produce and a weak monsoon can cause famine and drought.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Also, the rainy season is significant to maintain groundwater levels and of natural resources. Apart from that, all the living and non-living things directly or indirectly depend upon natural water and rainy season replenishes that water so that it can sustain till next season.
The continuous rain during monsoon provides us the chance to collect this runoff water by different methods of rainwater harvesting. Also, either we can use this saved water for different purposes or for recharging groundwater.
Rainy Season is Most Amazing Season of the Year
The rainy season is the most essential and undoubtedly pleasing season of the year. Also, for countries that consider agriculture as the backbone of the economy, it is far more important than any other material thing. Apart from that, the season helps in replenishing the freshwater that revitalize the life on the planet.
Also, it is important for all life forms on earth whether big or small. For the reason, rain supply a large amount of fresh water. Above all, if there will be no rain then many green areas of different demography will turn into dry and barren land.
{
“@context”: “https://schema.org”,
“@type”: “FAQPage”,
“mainEntity”: [{
“@type”: “Question”,
“name”: “What causes rain?”,
“acceptedAnswer”: {
“@type”: “Answer”,
“text”: “The low-pressure zone that’s created by the earth’s surface temperature to rise up which eventually force the moisture and clouds to move towards the land to precipitate causes rain.”
}
}, {
“@type”: “Question”,
“name”: “Why rainy season is so important in India?”,
“acceptedAnswer”: {
“@type”: “Answer”,
“text”:”For countries like India rainy season is important because a large sector of agriculture depends on rainfall. Also, good rainfall helps them to have a good harvest and bad rainfall can cause famine, drought, etc.”}
}]
}
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp