500+ Words Essay on Recycling
Recycling is a method of procedure that includes the collection and breaking down of waste material to create something new out of it. The process was introduced sot that the non-biodegradable materials can be melted or break down to create something useful. After the effects of global warming and pollution have become known to men the process of recycling has become more important.
Why We Need Recycling?
We need recycling for many reasons. But most importantly, it will help us to save our planet. Besides, recycling saves the earth by facilitating the reprocess of paper which will save millions of trees.
Also, recycling saves a lot of energy because many things that we recycle can easily be converted into virgin materials. In addition, it saves a lot of resources too.
Moreover, recycling reduces the burden of the environment. As we save energy the number of greenhouse gases and oxides are produced in less quantity. Because most of the toxic gases are produced by factories.
In addition, recycling reduces the amount of waste, that takes years to decompose. Also, the recycled material can be sold. We use this recycled material for the manufacturing of many new products. So, ultimately recycling saves money.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
The Process of Recycling
The various materials that we recycle have to go through a process that refines and purifies them. Besides, different materials go through a different process and in this topic we will discuss the recycling process of various materials.
Paper- It is the most used material on the earth. Paper is made up of two materials water and wood. For recycling paper firstly they break it down in small pieces and dissolve it into water. After that, they add chemicals that filter out the ink and dirt from it. In addition after filtering the paper takes the form of a mush called the pulp and this pulp is later converted into clean paper.
Metals- The metals are first shredded into small pieces and then they were melted and after that remolded into new shapes.
Glass- The recycling of glass is the easier they just break it into pieces and then they melt it and recast them.
Plastic- They also follow the same process as plastic. But, the process of plastic recycling is a little bit complex because they have to sort out the different types of plastics. As there is a diverse variety of plastic with different properties.
How Can We Contribute to Recycling?
Almost everything that we use can be recycled whether it is household materials like paper, plastic, metal, glass, furniture, toys, artifacts, vehicles, etc. Besides, opt for things from the market that can easily be recycled. Also, try to use merchandise that is made up of recycled products.
In addition, sort your waste and dump your recyclable waste in the recycle bin so that the authorities can recycle it.
To Sum it up, recycling is a small step by humans to save the environment. But this small step is very effective in the long run. Also, before throwing away the waste we should check it to see if there is a recyclable product in it or not.
FAQs about Essay on Recycling
Q.1 List some benefits of recycling.
A.1 There are many benefits to recycling like:
It reduces the amount of waste produced by us.
Conserves natural resources such as water, wood, and minerals.
It prevents the overuse of resources and helps in preserving them.
In addition, it saves energy.
Q.2 Give an important fact related to recycling.
A.2 An important fact can be that recycling reduces the amount of waste which goes to landfills. Also, lesser density in landfill means less amount of methane and other gases is released into the air.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp