500+ Words Essay on Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan
DR. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan was a great person. He became the first vice-president of the country and the second president of free India. Besides, before being a vice-president and president he was a philosopher, a teacher, and an author. In addition, his birthday 5th September is celebrated as Teachers day in India every year. He was among one of the great leaders of the country and due to his contribution to education his birthday is often called teachers’ day.
Life of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan
He was born in 1888 in Madras in a very poor Brahmin Family. Due to the poor economic status of his family, he completed his studies with the help and support of scholarship. He completed his early education from various missionary schools spread across the geographical boundaries of the city. Besides, he takes much interest in philosophy and completed his bachelor’s and masters’ degrees from philosophy.
After completing his M.A. degree he started working as an assistant lecturer in the Madras Presidency College. Also, he had an interest in religious mythologies and he mastered the class Hindu philosophy such as Bhagavad Gita, Brahmasutra, Commentaries of Sankara, Upanishads, Ramanuja, and Madhava. Besides these, he mastered many other classic Hindu philosophies too.
In addition, he was well familiar with the philosophies of Jain and Buddhist. Also, he was well aware of the thinkers of the western world.
In 1918, he became a professor at the University of Mysore and soon after that, Calcutta University nominated him for the professor of philosophy. Later on his life, he was called from Oxford University to deliver lectures on Hindu Philosophy. Furthermore, after many of his hard efforts, he was able to put Indian philosophy on the world map. It is because of his attempts that the Indian Philosophy is able to put a mark on the world.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
His life after the 1930s
After the 1930s his life took many big turns and he became the vice-chancellor of many Universities that includes Banaras Hindu University and Andhra University. Later on, sometime prior to Indian independence he was appointed as the ambassador of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization). And, after independence, he became the ambassador of the Soviet Union.
Furthermore, in 1952, he became the vice-president of India and in 1954; he received the Bharat Ratna award. In addition, he served as the vice-president of India for two complete terms and in 1962 he became the President of India. He retired soon after completing his term as the President of India. He serves the country with his great work and the nobleman died in 1975.
Awards and Memorial
Besides Bharat Ratna, he also won many awards throughout his life. He won the Templeton award which he donated to Oxford University. Furthermore, he also won the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade. In order to pay him honor forever, the university started Radhakrishnan Scholarship which they later renamed as Radhakrishnan Chevening Scholarship.
To sum it up we can say that, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan was a great man who loved to teach. For his efforts in teaching, we celebrate his birthday as Teacher’s Day in India. Besides, he was a great teacher, philosopher, and author.
Some FAQs
Q.1 Why we celebrate 5th September as Teachers day?
A.1 We celebrate teacher day on 5th September to remember the birth of our former president Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. He was the scholar, promoter of education, and a teacher.
Q.2 How did Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan serve the country?
A.2 He serves the country by educating the students, as they are the future of the country.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp