500+ Words Essay on Should Plastic be Banned
Plastic bags are a major cause of environmental pollution. Plastic as a substance is non-biodegradable and thus plastic bags remain in the environment for hundreds of years polluting it immensely. It has become very essential to ban plastic bags before they ruin our planet completely. Many countries around the globe have either put a ban on the plastic bag or Levi tax on it. However, the problem hasn’t been solved completely because the implementation of these measures hasn’t been as successful.
Problems Caused by Plastic Bags
Here are some of the problems caused by plastic bags:
Non-Biodegradable
Plastic bags are non-biodegradable. Thus, disposing of the plastics is the biggest challenge. T
Deterioration of Environment
They are destroying nature due to their harmful effect. Plastic bags have become the main cause of land pollution today. The plastic bags entering into the water bodies are a major cause of water pollution. Hence we can conclude that these are deteriorating our environment in every possible way.
Harmful for Animals and Marine Creatures
Animals and marine creatures unknowingly consume plastic particles along with their food. Research shows that waste plastic bags have been a major reason for untimely animal deaths.
Cause of Illness in Humans
The production of plastic bags releases toxic chemicals. These are the main cause of serious illness. The polluted environment is a major reason for various diseases which are spreading easily in human beings.
Clogged Sewage
Waste plastic bags are the main reason for trapping the drains and sewers, especially during rains. This can result in a flood-like situation and disrupt the normal life of people.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Reasons to Ban Plastic Bags
There are numerous reasons why the government of various countries has come up with strict measures to limit the use of plastic bags. Some of these include:
Waste plastic bags are polluting the land and water immensely.
Plastic bags have become a threat to the life of animals living on earth as well as in water.
Chemicals released by waste plastic bags enter the soil and make it infertile.
Plastic bags are having a negative impact on human health.
Plastic bags lead to the drainage problem.
Public Support for Plastic Bag Ban
Although the Indian government has imposed a ban on the usage of plastic bags in many states. But people are still carrying these bags. Shopkeepers stop providing plastic bags for few days only in the beginning.
It is time when we all must contribute our bit to make this ban a success. Thus we the educated lot of society must take it as our responsibility to stop using plastic bags. In this way, we can support the government in this campaign.
Some contributions that can be made by people are as follows:
Keep a Tab
In order to be successful in this mission, we must keep reminding ourselves about the harmful effects of the plastic bags on our nature and keep a tab on their use. Gradually, we will become habitual to doing without these bags.
Seek Alternatives
There are many eco-friendly alternatives to plastic bags like reusable jute or cloth bag.
Reuse
We must reuse the plastic bags we already have at home as many times as we can before throwing them away.
Spread Awareness
While the government is spreading awareness about the harmful effects of plastic bags, we can also spread awareness through word of mouth.
Conclusion
Although plastic is becoming a big threat for all of us, still this problem has often been overlooked and underestimated. This is because people do not look at the long term effect of these small, easy to carry bags they use in their everyday life. Besides all of these people keep using bags due to their convenience. But now everyone has to completely stop using the plastic bag to save our environment and earth.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp