500 Words Essay On Sports Day
Sports day consists of events which many schools stage in which students participate in sporting activities. They usually participate to win trophies or prizes. A lot of elementary schools hold sports day annually on their campus. Through the sports day essay, we will take a look at what all happens on this day.
Sports Day at My School
My school conducts sports day every year. It takes place in the month of November every year. Each year, all the classes present different acts to the audience. As per the class, the acts are chosen.
For instance, the junior classes perform simple acts like aerobics while the senior classes perform difficult acts like forming pyramids, long jump, and more. The sports day at my school takes place with full preparation.
The preparations begin two months earlier so that students can perfect their act. We get extra time to practice for the sports day. It also helps to cut down on some academic studying which everyone enjoys.
All of us practice in the sun and try to perfect our moves. On the final day, we all invite our parents to watch us perform our act. The parents come excitedly and watch and film their children perform harmoniously with the other students.
Moreover, there are also marathons and walkathons which are very interesting to watch. It happens on the basis of the division of houses. The most number of wins in my school have been procured by the blue house.
Thus, we all enjoy ourselves a lot on our sports day and perform for our parents and teachers. There is always a chief guest invited to our sports day that inaugurates and concludes the ceremony with their encouraging words.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
My Favourite Day
Sports Day is my favourite day because it helps me demonstrate my talents. I am a very athletic person and enjoy playing sports. I can run marathons and go through the ring of fire with ease.
My friends are also very athletic so we wait for this day throughout the year. Moreover, on our sports day, we are allowed to bring snacks of all kinds. So, I share it with my friends and we have a gala time while waiting to perform.
On sports day, I always bring back home at least one trophy or medal. I have a great collection of certificates, awards and medals at home which signifies my wins on the sports day.
Sports day provides me with unforgettable memories every year. It gives me a chance to make even more and better memories with my friends. Thus, I enjoy this day a lot. When I pass out of my school, I will try to visit my school on sports day. It will be a sweet walk down memory lane and also a great chance to meet my teachers.
Conclusion of Sports Day Essay
Sports Day is a very exciting and happy day that every student looks forward to. Every student can participate in different types of sporting events. Personally, I enjoy sports day and look forward to it every year. It helps me showcase my athletic abilities in front of an enthusiastic audience.
FAQ of Sports Day Essay
Question 1: What is the importance of sports day?
Answer 1: Sports day is an important day which helps every student to indulge in physical activities and sports. It helps the students to take a break from their academic routine and enjoy playing sports.
Question 2: How do schools celebrate Sports Day?
Answer 2: Most of the school have common ways of celebrating sports days. It encourages students to participate in it by partaking in sporting activities like flat race, hurdle race, cycling, high and long jump and more.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp