500+ Words Essay on Spring Season
Spring refers to the season of the year between winter and summer. Its beginning marks the end of Winter Season. Also, the end of Spring signals the start of the Summer season. Furthermore, when it is Spring in the Northern Hemisphere, it is Autumn in the Southern and vice-versa. Also, during Spring Season days and nights are probably 12 hours. Spring is certainly a time of happiness and joy. Most noteworthy, in many cultures Spring celebrations occur with rites and festivals.
Natural Events
The axis of the Earth increases its tilt relative to the Sun in early Spring. Also, the length of the daylight increases for the relevant hemisphere. Furthermore, the hemisphere gets warm which results in new plants to spring forth. Hence, the season is called Spring. Another important occurrence is the melting of the snow. Frosts also get less severe.
As Spring advances, many flowering plants bloom. In some areas of Northern hemisphere, Spring begins in February. Furthermore, temperate areas have a dry Spring which brings flowering. Also, in sub-arctic regions, Spring does not begin until May.
Spring certainly is the result of warmth. Furthermore, this warmth is due to the changing of Earth’s axis relative to the Sun. Unstable weather can also occur at Spring. This happens when warm air invades from lower latitudes, while cold air pushes from the Polar Regions. In Spring, flooding is common in the mountainous areas. This is because of the snowmelt acceleration by warm rains.
In recent years, a new Spring phenomenon known as season creep has been observed. Most noteworthy, due to season creep, signs of Spring are now occurring earlier than expected. This trend is prevalent in many regions of the World.
Health Benefits of the Spring Season
Spring Season certainly brings with itself many health benefits. One important benefit of the Spring Season is the mental boost. Winter season can cause depression and anxiety in many people. Spring replaces those feelings with fresh and positive energy. People are able to come out of winter hibernation. Most noteworthy, the Spring Season is a period of rejuvenation and joy.
Probably many individuals consume Winter comfortable foods during Winter Season. This certainly results in increased weights for many individuals. Spring is a time for eating diet food. During Spring Season healthy fresh local food is available. Above all, many vitamin-rich vegetables reach their prime during Spring. Some of these vegetables are asparagus, kale, and peas.
Spring Season is a healthy season. The season certainly helps in making homes healthy. Sunshine and fresh air enter indoor after a long Winter Season. Most noteworthy, people get to breathe high amount of fresh oxygen during Spring Season. Furthermore, ample Sunshine during Spring is good for the skin. This is because; Sunlight is an excellent way to get vitamin D.
Spring Season significantly increases the motivation to do the workout. Furthermore, cold weather is a period of less physical activity. So, when Spring comes, people get excited about physical activity. The beautiful warmth of the Sun encourages probably everyone to exercise. Hence, Spring improves the physical fitness of individuals.
In conclusion, Spring Season is certainly the best season anywhere on Earth. A lot of activities can be easily carried out in Spring Season. This is due to the beautiful comfortable weather at this time of the year. Without hesitation, one can call Spring as the king of all seasons.
FAQs on Spring Season
Q1 What is season creep?
A1 Season creep is a phenomenon which has come up in recent years. Above all, due to season creep, signs of Spring are occurring earlier than usual. Furthermore, season creep is prevalent in many regions of the World.
Q2 Name some vitamin-rich vegetables which reach their prime during Spring?
A2 During Spring Season many vitamin-rich vegetables certainly reach their prime. Most noteworthy, some of these vegetables are asparagus, kale, and peas.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp