500+ Words Essay On Subhash Chandra Bose
Subhash Chandra Bose was a great Indian nationalist. People even today know him by love for his country. This true Indian man was born on the 23rd of January in 1897. Most noteworthy, he fought with bravery against the British rule. Subhash Chandra Bose was certainly a revolutionary freedom fighter.
Contribution of Subhash Chandra Bose in the Indian Independence
The participation of Subhash Chandra Bose took place with the Civil Disobedience Movement. This is how Subhash Chandra Bose became part of the Indian Independence movement. He became a member of the Indian National Congress (INC). Also, in 1939 he became the party president. However, this was for a short time only because of his resignation from this post.
The British put Subhash Chandra Bose under house arrest. This was because of his opposition to British rule. However, due to his cleverness, he secretly left the country in 1941. He then went to Europe to seek help against the British. Most noteworthy, he sought the help of Russians and Germans against the British.
Subhash Chandra Bose went to Japan in 1943. This was because the Japanese gave their agreement to his appeal for help. In Japan Subhash Chandra Bose began the formation of the Indian National Army. Most noteworthy, he did the formation of a provisional government. The axis powers during the Second World War certainly recognized this provisional government.
The Indian National Army attacked the North-eastern parts of India. Furthermore, this attack took place under the leadership of Subhash Chandra Bose. Also, the INA was successful in capturing a few portions. Unfortunately, there was the surrender of INA due to weather and Japanese policies. However, Bose made his Refusal to surrender clear. He escaped on a plane but this plane most probably crashed. Due to this, Subhash Chandra Bose died on 18 August 1945.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Ideology of Subhash Chandra Bose
First of all, Subhash Chandra Bose strongly supported the complete independence of India. In contrast, the Congress Committee initially wanted independence in phases, through Dominion status. Furthermore, Bose was elected president of Congress for two consecutive terms. But due to his ideological conflicts with Gandhi and Congress, Bose took resignation. Bose was against Mahatma Gandhi’s approach of non-violence. Subhash Chandra Bose was a supporter of violent resistance.
Subhash Chandra Bose saw 2nd World War as a great opportunity. He saw this as an opportunity to take advantage of British weakness. Also, he went to USSR, Germany, and Japan to seek help. He led the INA to the fight against the British.
Subhash Chandra Bose was a strong believer in Bhagwat Gita. It was his belief that Bhagwat Gita was a great source of inspiration for the fight against the British. He also held Swami Vivekananda’s teachings in high-esteem.
In conclusion, Subhash Chandra Bose is an unforgettable national hero. He had tremendous love for his country. Furthermore, this great personality sacrificed his whole life for the country.
Essay Topics on Famous Leaders
Mahatma Gandhi
APJ Abdul Kalam
Jawaharlal Nehru
Swami Vivekananda
Mother Teresa
Rabindranath Tagore
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
Subhash Chandra Bose
Abraham Lincoln
Martin Luther King
{
“@context”: “https://schema.org”,
“@type”: “FAQPage”,
“mainEntity”: [{
“@type”: “Question”,
“name”: “How did Subhash Chandra Bose became part of Indian Independence movement?”,
“acceptedAnswer”: {
“@type”: “Answer”,
“text”: “Subhash Chandra Bose certainly played a huge role in the Indian Independence. He became part of it by participating in the Civil Disobedience Movement.”
}
}, {
“@type”: “Question”,
“name”: “Why did Subhash Chandra Bose took resignation from the presidency post of Congress?”,
“acceptedAnswer”: {
“@type”: “Answer”,
“text”:”Subhash Chandra Bose certainly took resignation from the Congress presidency. He took this resignation due to ideological differences. Furthermore, he had these ideological differences with Gandhi and Congress.”}
}]
}
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp