500 Words Essay on Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan
The Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan which means the Accessible India Campaign is an initiative that our Prime Minister, Narendra Modi launched on 3rd December 2015 in New Delhi. The objective behind this initiative is really great which helps in the inclusion of all. The program was launched on the day of persons with disabilities. It was a way of honoring those who are born with special abilities. The effort was to help all these people get access to every public place without any hassle. It was to help empower them for their development.
Objectives of Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan
The Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan had a lot of objectives that they wish to fulfill for the betterment of all sectors of the society including the handicapped. Firstly, it aims to make all public places in the country disable friendly. This way any disabled person can lead a normal life and not think twice before stepping out. For instance, all government buildings, schools, offices, tourists places, railway stations, airports must be inclusive of these facilities.
Furthermore, intends to make the environment barrier-free throughout the country. This will ensure universal accessibility for the people who are disabled. Similarly, wants to ensure that all people get equal opportunities irrespective of their physical and mental disabilities. This way, they can become independent instead of depending on others.
Moreover, it also encourages all these people to take part in every sphere of life without hesitation. This mission wants them to lead a dignified life full of ease and comfort. Similarly, it also wishes to spread awareness about this initiative through the help of experts. Other than that, the initiative also proposed the establishment of a university that conducts courses for similar people.
Most importantly, it promises to provide people with 70-90% disability a free motorized motorcycle to make their lives easier. Subsequently, they aim to renovate the existing public buildings to become accessible for these people. Moreover, it also wants to create new similar buildings full of all amenities and facilities for disabled people.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan
We all know that the inclusion of all kinds of people will bring a better future for us. Moreover, it will also make those with disabilities feel included. This initiative is important because it teaches the message of equality for all.
Moreover, it is a great step towards making the lives of these people easier. As it is they have to go through a lot in their lives due to their disabilities. This initiative aims to ease the pain and make their lives worthwhile. It will not only boost their confidence but also be of great help towards the development of our country.
Most importantly, it will spread awareness of the issues being faced by people with disabilities. It will help us become more sensitive to their problems and also urge others to do their bit in making their life easy. Therefore, it will serve these people greatly. Other than that, it will also benefit the economy as well when every person works for their independent life irrespective of anything else.
FAQs on Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan
Q.1 What are the objectives of the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan?
A.1 This initiative aims to make all the public places accessible to disabled people. Moreover, it wants to give equal opportunities to everyone irrespective of disability. It also empowers them to partake in all spheres of life.
Q.2 Why is this initiative important?
A.2 This initiative is quite important as it helps in the inclusion of all kinds of people. It will make a brighter future for those with disabilities. It will also make them more confident and empowered through accessibility at all places.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp