 500+ Words Essay on Surgical Strike
We sleep because our soldiers wake. We live in peace because they guard and protect us. What army does is always and only for the country. Surgical strike is a well planned militant affair of crossing the borders of their nation and destroying the camps, and arms and kill terrorists. In a surgical strike, the forces do no harm to the innocent people and to the public property. The army performs it with proper guidance and instructions of Defence Ministry and Army authorities. That surgical strike was held by Indian Army against Pakistan on 28th and 29th September 2016.
Surgical Strike of 2016 
Since 1947, the Indo-Pak cold war is one of the most talked-about rivalries in the world. After that Pakistan has always sought ways to attack our nation. The events leading to surgical strike can be dated back to 18th September 2016 when four Pakistani attacked Indian army at Uri-base in Jammu and Kashmir. It was Jaish-e-Mohammad Fidayeen group of Pakistan who planned the attack.
On 21st September India gave a protest letter to Pakistan High Commissioner Abdul Basit regarding the involvement of Pakistan in those attacks. It, in turn, back-fired India as Pakistani Defence minister blamed us of carrying Uri attack to grab the attention from protestors group in Jammu and Kashmir. These events offended India and consequently led to its outbreak in the form of surgical strike.
On 28th  September 2016, at 12.30 am, the commandos of Indian Army were dropped at Line of Control (LoC) in the region of Pakistan. The surgical operation was conducted in Bhimber, Hotspring, Kel and Lipa sectors. India claims that during the surgical strike 7 military launch pads with 38 terrorists and 2 Pakistani soldiers were killed and destroyed.
Before the attack was held the army forces walked for 1-3 km destroying terrorist bases. This kind of operation or strike always requires coordination among the government, intelligence agencies and the security forces for the success.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
After Effect of Surgical Strike
After the surgical strike, there was a heated discussion on the political grounds. Pakistan claimed that there had been no surgical strike conducted by India. The formation of allied groups in Pakistan was also seen and they feared another attack by India on a larger scale.
The Modi government got support from the neighboring countries like Japan and Germany whereas Pakistan tried to improve their relationship with China. In today’s political scenario every country is trying to strengthen its powers.
Conclusion
A nation with no terrorism, extortion, black money and murders is a dream of every citizen. Whereas peace and harmony is yet the ultimate desire of every being. No matter how we justify the cause of destruction which these attacks create on either side of the border, can never be reasonable. At the end of the day what anyone aspires from life is immense happiness, peace, and satisfaction. If every civilian adheres to it the world would be a happy and peaceful place to live in.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp