500+ Words Essay On Swami Vivekananda
Born as Narendranath Dutta on 12th January 1863 in the holy and divine place of Kolkata, Swami Vivekananda was a great Indian saint. He was a figure with “high thinking and simple living”. He was a great pious leader, a philosopher, and also a devout personality with great principles.  His eminent philosophical works comprise of “Modern Vedanta” and “Raj Yoga”. He was a principal disciple of “Ramkrishna Paramhansa” and was an initiator of Ramkrishna Math and Ramkrishna Mission. He thus spent his whole life in the dispersion of the values embedded in the great Indian culture.
Childhood Days
Swami Vivekananda, the son of Shri Vishwanath and mother Bhuvneshwari Devi was called by the name “Narendranath Dutta” in the early days. Narendra was a child of unquestioned expertise and intellectual capability who used to take grasp of all his school teachings at first sight.
This excellence was recognized by his Gurus and thus was named “Shrutidhar” by them. He possessed manifold talents and skills comprising of swimming, wrestling which were a part of his schedule. Influenced by the teachings of Ramayana and Mahabharata, he had bottomless respect for religion. “Pavan Putra Hanuman” was his ideal for life.
Narendra was a lover of heroism and mystical by nature. Despite his upbringing in a spiritual family, he owned an argumentative personality in his infancy. His entire beliefs were assisted by an apt rationale and judgment behind them. Such a quality made him even put a question on the existence of the Almighty. He thus visited several saints and asked each one “have you seen God?”His spiritual quest left unanswered until he met “Ramkrishna Paramhansa”.
Meeting with Ramkrishna Paramhansa and Harmonization of Indian Culture
Swami Vivekananda met Ramkrishna Paramhansa for the first time when the latter visited his friend’s residence in Kolkata. Conscious of the supernatural powers of Swami Vivekananda called him to Dakshineshwar. He had a deep insight that Swamiji’s birth was a boon to mankind for the upliftment of the universe. Fulfillment of his spiritual inquisitiveness made he finally acknowledge Ramkrishna Paramhansa in the figure of his “Guru”. He was moved from darkness to illumination by his “Guru”. As his deep gratitude and reverence for his Guru made him travel all the four directions for the diffusion of his Guru’s teachings.
Swamiji won the hearts of everyone by his incredible speech at Chicago by addressing the audience as “Sisters and Brothers of America”
Vivekananda quoted these words” I am proud to belong to a religion which has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance. We believe not only in universal tolerance but we accept all religions as true.” Thus, he set forward the worth of Indian religion exhibiting the values of universal acceptance, oneness, and harmony despite multiplicity in cultures.
Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose once said,” Swamiji harmonized the East and the West, religion, and science, past and the present and that is why he is great.” He played a prominent role in ending India’s cultural remoteness from the rest of the world.
A figure of highest ideals and great thoughts, Swamiji was an inspiration for the Youth of India.  Through his teachings he wanted to fill the young brains with the powers of self-realization, character formation, to recognize inner strengths, service to others, an optimistic outlook, tireless efforts and a lot more.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Other Great Works by Swami Vivekananda
His famous quotations include, “Arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached.” He also added that anything making a child physically, intellectually and spiritually weak must be rejected as a poison. He also emphasized on an education that leads to character formation.
His establishment of “Ramkrishna Math” and “Ramkrishna Mission” was a sign of “Guru Bhakti”, his sacrifice, austerity, and service of the poor and the downtrodden people of India. He was also a founder of Belur Math.
He spread the message of divinity and the true aims of scriptures. This great patriotic monk of the Mother Earth took his last breath on 4th July 1902 at Belur Math.
Conclusion
Swamiji carried the messages of the rich and varied heritage of Indian culture and Hinduism, non-duality, selfless love, and service towards the nation. His mesmerizing personality with the highest virtues illuminated the young minds. His teachings aroused the realization of the power of the soul in them.
Thus, we celebrate his “Avtaran Divas” 12th January, as the National Youth Day with great zeal and enthusiasm.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp