500+ Words Essay on Teamwork
Teamwork is working together of people to achieve a certain goal. Teamwork is the basic need for an organization to function. Furthermore, every organization has a division of several teams to perform specific tasks.
Without teamwork nothing is possible. Moreover, if any organization lacks teamwork. Then it will hamper its success rate. Thus the organization will fall. Also, it will affect the environment the people are working in.
Furthermore, the organization has a different hierarchy of teamwork. So that the workload gets divided. And each team has an expert who guides different team members with his prior experience
.
Hierarchy of Teamwork in an Organization
The organization has a division of three teams – Top Level, Middle Level, Lower Level
The Top Level: This team of the organization decides the goals of the company. Furthermore, they understand the need for different sectors of society. And makes policies to maximize the profit of the company. Moreover, it also works on the development of the company and its employees.
Every company has a certain goal in mind before making any policy. This part of the organization analyzes the goal. So that the company should be certain whether the approaching of this goal is profitable or not. For instance, this part of the organization consists of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officers Etc.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
The Middle Level: The middle level consists of the manager and the Supervisors. This team of workers focuses on the implementation of the policies made by the Top-level. Furthermore, the team assigns various tasks to the employee sector, so that they may work towards the goals of the company. Moreover, the Middle level inspects and keeps a regular check on their work.
In short, they bridge the gap between the top level and the middle level. In order to be a part of this team, a person should be qualified enough. Because this ensures that the person is having the knowledge of all the work he is assigning to the employees.
Only then the person would be capable enough to guide the lower level. Above all the main work is to meet the demands of the employee, so that the organization can work in a better way.
The Lower level: The Lower Level consists of the employees. They work on the tasks assigned to them by the Middle Level. The coordination of teamwork is much needed in the employment sector. As the need to submit each task within a period of time.
So that the organization may run smoothly. The base of the organization is the employment sector. As without them, the application of policies isn’t possible.
Importance of Teamwork
Teamwork has the greatest importance in any part of the world. Whether it be an organization or a small business. Teamwork is the key to success. In our schools, we play many sports that enlist teamwork.
Thus from our childhood only we knew about teamwork. Because our mentors understood the importance of teamwork. That is the reason they always guided us on the right path.
At last, the teamwork team generates a relationship between two people. As we all know that human is a social being, so it is beneficial for the environment of a person.
Some FAQs
Q1. What is Teamwork?
A1. Teamwork is the working together of a group of people to accomplish a certain goal.
Q2. What is the importance of teamwork?
A2. Teamwork enlists a level of enthusiasm in a person. Moreover it essential to save time, as groups of people work on specific tasks. Which as a whole saves time to a higher extent. Also, it boosts the confidence of a person working in any organization.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp