500+ Words Essay on Traffic Jam
Traffic jam is the situation when vehicles are stopped completely for some time period on the roads. Also, vehicles have to wait for a long time to move out of the jam. Sometimes it becomes like congestion in traffic. This happens in transport network due to the increasing vehicles and overuse of roads. Often it is due to slow speed, longer trip time and increased queues of vehicles. Therefore, traffic jam is becoming a major issue mostly in all cities.
Problems arising due to Traffic Jam
Traffic Jam has a tremendous impact on the life of people. It is one of the most serious problems in big cities that people have to deal in daily life. Since most of the people have to deal with it on a daily basis they may get psychologically affected. It also negatively affects work, education and personal life of people and finally to the progress of the country.
Let us discuss some major problems that arise due to high traffic:
Traffic is one of the major problems in cities and has made the lives of people really difficult. Obviously, it results in non-productive activity.
People experience delays for their important work. This may even result in personal as well as professional losses.
It is also the main cause of wastage of fuels and air pollution.
It increases stress and frustration among motorists and passengers.
Unsafe driving is the main impact of traffic jam which may lead to road mishaps and hence injuries.
Traffic jams can also have a negative impact on the mind of a person. The traffic congestion and constant blowing of horns create excessive noise pollution.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Disadvantages of Traffic Jam:
Let us have a look at some chief disadvantages of traffic jams in detail below:
Unproductive time is the major disadvantage of traffic jam.
The other negative effect of much traffic is the emission of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere leading to the issue of global warming.
Businesses nowadays provide home delivery services. Such time bond businesses are strongly affected by the traffic jam.
The frequent breaking and accelerating the vehicles in traffic jams burns more fuel. Hence it is the additional loss.
Road rage is the absurd reaction of commuters that is very common during traffic jams. People often use bad language and drive aggressively that can lead to accidents.
Emergency vehicles like fire brigade and ambulance get stuck up in traffic jams that cause a delay in reaching the location.
Suggestions:
Some suggestions to solve the traffic jam problem are as follows:
People should use public transport as much as possible.
The government must increase the facilities of public transport as per the need of the population.
Everyone should avoid the unnecessary collection of vehicles.
People should use carpool and vehicle sharing to decrease the vehicles on the road.
Conditions of the road in India is not good. Authorities must improve this situation.
Vehicle registration and motor driving license policy must be strictly implemented.
People must be aware of traffic rules and also be motivated to follow strictly.
Mixed traffic on the roads is also a big reason for it. So, it must be banned.
Conclusion:
Thus, traffic jam is a serious issue in every big city that causes several problems for common people. It consumes so much of time and energy unnecessarily and hence the loss of the nation. Therefore, serious measures have to be taken by the authorities to control traffic and promote the use of public transport. Development of public transport network at economical rates is essential. Implementation of traffic safety rules by traffic police is a must. People should drive more sensibly and responsibly. Hence we all can work in this way to solve the big threat of the current time.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp