500+ Words Essay on Trees Are Our Best Friend
Trees are our best friend essay: It is correctly said that “when you plant a tree, you plant a life”. Trees are one of the greatest blessings for humans from mother earth. The most important thing one must remember is that trees do not need us, rather we need them. Apart from the countless benefits they have, trees our certainly our best friends. They are the friends who always give us everything without expecting a single thing in return. Trees have inherited this earth longer than humans; however, humans tend to forget this fact. They fail to recognize their significance and continue to exploit them endlessly for short-term benefits.
Significance of Trees
Just like our friends, trees also come in our use in various ways. We usually share everything with our friends, similarly, trees do the same. They give us their fruits, seeds, flowers, herbs and more. It is impossible for human life to function without trees as they belong to the category of principal sources of oxygen on earth.
They are responsible for protecting us under their shade. Further, they even help in preventing natural calamities like droughts and floods. In addition to being useful for humans, trees are also a home for several birds and animals.
They provide shelter to them which ultimately benefits humans as well. In other words, trees fulfill the role of a best friend in every human being’s life irrespective of anything.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Over-exploitation of Trees
Despite holding such a great significance in our lives, humans have been overexploiting trees for the longest time. This constant practice can prove to be extremely devastating for the earth and human life, both.
For instance, the industrial sector is cutting down trees rapidly for attaining raw materials in bulk. Subsequently, even governments are contributing to deforestation by clear-cutting in order to build huge buildings.

The world is turning into a concrete jungle with paying little or no heed to its dire consequences. Therefore, one must realize these facts and act on them before it gets too late.
To sum it up, as life gets hard without our best friend, the same will happen with the lack of trees too. The least we can do for trees is save them from being cut down. Without trees, this planet will turn into a desert.
While various governments of different countries are taking measures to conserve them, we must do it too individually. Encourage planting of trees and join campaigns that do the same. Make the world a greener place and protect our best friends.
FAQs on Trees
Question- How can you label trees as your ‘best friend’?
Answer- As it is quite evident, there are numerous similarities between a best friend and trees. We see how trees do the same things for us, sometimes even more, as our best friends. They are always there when we need them. Trees protect us from everything just like our friends. They benefit us in several ways and enhance our lives by their presence, similar to best friends.
Question- Why are trees being overexploited?
Answer- As trees have plentiful advantages; humans are exploiting or rather overexploiting them endlessly. Without realizing or simply ignoring that they are essentially non-renewable resources. On the corporate level as well as individual level, they are being exploited for the wood they provide useful in industries. They are cut down for agricultural use. People also clear land by cutting trees to build buildings and homes. One of the main reasons for this overexploitation is the need for wood, paper, and palm oil.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp