500+ Words Essay on Triple Talaq
Talaq is an Arabic word meaning divorce. Triple talaq is meant as an Instant and irreversible divorce. It is an Islamic Divorce procedure. Triple Talaq is followed by Indian Muslims and people who follow Islam from different countries. In triple talaq, a Muslim husband gives divorce to his wife by uttering the word “talaq, talaq, talaq” at one go. Once it is spoken, the marriage stands void. It is applicable in both forms, oral and written. In most recent times, digital formats like sending over email, WhatsApp, is valid.
History of Triple Talaq
This divorce is one of the 1300-year-old practice among Muslims, especially Sunni Muslims. In India, as per census 2011, this Divorce practice affects around 8% of Indian women population, especially women above the age of 60 years. It comes under the Personal Law by Indian Muslims. Triple talaq is a practice of Divorce under Sharia Law (Islamic Law).
Talaq – Different Types
As per Islamic, law, in general, there are different types of Talaq for men and women. For men, under Islamic law, there are three types of divorce namely Talaq-e-Biddat (triple talaq), Hasan and Ahsan. The major difference among these divorces is that the triple talaq is irrevocable whereas the other two are revocable. Triple Talaq is an instant divorce whereas the other two takes some time and is not instant.
In the case of women, there is a traditional “fiqh khul” or also known as “khula”, allowing a woman to divorce her husband through mutual consent of the husband or a judicial decree. Its reference is also available in the Holy Quran or Hadees. Hadees is known as the sayings of Prophet Mohammed.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Triple Talaq Bill
Of lately, there has been much noise against the practice of Triple Talaq by the male population of Islamic culture. Triple Talaq has been seen as the dominance of men over women. It goes against the rights of Equality and women’s empowerment among Muslim women population of the country.
This method of Divorce does not stand with the fundamental principles of Gender Equality and secularism. It puts a question on the dignity of woman, justice and basic human rights privilege of Muslim women in the country.
When Prime Minister Narendra Modi started a campaign for Uttar Pradesh State Elections in 2017, Muslim women raise their voice and concerns to abolish Triple Talaq. And the then central Government started finding a solution to the problems of such women.
In August 2017, Supreme Court of India has termed Triple Talaq as unconstitutional and many social, religious and legal observations have been produced against the practice of Triple Talaq.
Based on the atrocities faced by Indian women and judgment given by Supreme Court, Triple Talaq Bill has been introduced in the Indian Parliament to void the practices of triple talaq by Indian Muslim men and a bill was passed in parliament in Dec’2018 and finally passed by both the Houses on 30th July 2019.
From 01st August 2019, it has become a law which declares that Triple Talaq divorce given in the form of verbal, oral, written and digital or any form, whatsoever, deems to be void henceforth and it is illegal to practice.
Besides, the Bill entitles declaration of Talaq as a cognizable and non-bail able offense. A husband declaring talaq may be imprisoned for up to three years along with a fine. In terms of allowance, a Muslim woman is also entitled to seek allowance from her husband for herself and for her dependent children.
Conclusion and Way Forward
Getting respect is a fundamental right of every individual. One of the most important conclusions to be drawn through the abolishing of the Triple Talaq Bil is that no Muslim will face such discrimination and injustice in their life in future.
The practice of Triple Talaq has always been seen as a controversy by the entire world, but there are a major of Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Indonesia, Turkey who has discontinued the practice of Triple Talaq, a long time ago. Importance and role of Muslim clerics are very important in the implementation of the Triple Talaq Bill.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp