500 Words Essay on Value of Oxygen and Water
We all know that human beings need a number of things to survive. The most essential two things are surely oxygen and water. These two things are absolutely necessary for mankind. However, what we do not realize is that we are polluting both these things at a very fast rate. If we look at it closely, we’ll see that human activities are causing these two to deplete.
Value of Oxygen
Oxygen is basically a colourless and odourless gas which is a part of several compounds like water as well. Humans along with other mammals require oxygen necessarily. They need it to carry out their daily tasks and smooth functioning of the body.
Even the cells in our body need oxygen to function properly. All the living beings inhale oxygen in their lungs for proper respiration. After that, our cells absorb this gas to distribute it evenly to other cells of the body. Most importantly, oxygen is also stored in our body for emergency use so we can survive critical situations.
Furthermore, we also need oxygen to produce energy which helps in doing our tasks efficiently. For instance, through oxidation, our food and liquid get converted into energy. It is also beneficial in repairing our cells and maintaining our health.
Thus, we must ensure that we get an abundant supply of oxygen from nature. Do not cut down trees and clear out forests. On the contrary, we need to plant more trees. Similarly, do not pollute the air and hamper the oxygen quality. Avoid using personal conveyance and make sure to not leave a carbon footprint.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Value of Water
Water is an essential source for the survival of living beings. It would be an understatement to say that we cannot survive without it. It is made after the amalgamation of oxygen and hydrogen. Just like oxygen, it is also colourless and odourless.
Water is found in abundance on the planet though not all of it is safe for human consumption. We have been using water for centuries now, however, it is limited. It does replenish but that process also takes time which we are not giving it.
Water is equally important as oxygen is for living beings. Each body part even the tissue and cell need water for proper functioning. It helps in regulating the temperature of our body. Moreover, it also enhances the circulation of blood and oxygen in our body.
Furthermore, water is very important for lubricating our joints. Our digestive system also needs water for proper functioning. Moreover, water helps in flushing out the toxins from our body.
Similarly, our brain cells need water for proper functioning. We must drink sufficient amount of water for a healthy life. It will help in keeping you fit and fine for longer life. Thus, we must save water and use it wisely. Do not keep the tap running when not in use. Avoid dumping your waste into water and keep it as clean as possible.
Some FAQs for you
Q.1 Why do living beings need oxygen and water?
A.1 Living beings need oxygen and water to survive and grow. It helps in the smooth functioning of their body. Moreover, it also keeps them healthy and fit.
Q.2 What should we do to conserve water and oxygen?
A.2. Though these resources are very important, they are somewhat limited. We need to conserve them by using them properly. Further, do not waste water and pollute our air. We must plant more trees to get an abundant supply of oxygen.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp