500+ Words Essay on Wildlife Conservation
Wildlife, like trees, is also a domestic asset that not only helps to maintain the ecological balance but also benefits from financial, recreational and aesthetic points of perspective. There was a time when the number of wild animals was quite large when human interference was minimum and there was no issue with their safety or conservation. But, with the development of farming, settlement, industrial and other development activities, and primarily due to man’s greed, the number of wild animals gradually decreased and decreased. As a consequence, several animal species have become extinct and several are on the brink of being so. The Wildlife Conservation Essay is an insight into the requirements of conserving wildlife globally.
Deforestation
Deforestation is also a major cause of wildlife loss. Mass murders of wild animals are taking place all over the globe for their meat, bones, fur, teeth, hair, skin, etc. The need for conservation of wildlife has now become a necessity.
Population growth, agricultural and livestock development, urban and road building, and pollution are among the many pressures on wildlife’s natural habitat. In addition to illegal hunting, the decrease of habitat and its degradation has endangered the biodiversity of the widespread areas.
Wildlife preservation does not imply blanket protection for all species of fauna and flora; rather, it means adequate, judicious control over the multiplication of crops and animals that communicate to provide a suitable atmosphere for the man whose very life is at risk today.
In the past, due to the irrational use of the earth’s natural and biotic resources, most wildlife was demolished after recovery. It is our immediate responsibility to safeguard the ecosystem’s natural splendor and to develop a system of coexistence with every living creature on earth.
While the world’s nations must be very specific in terms of wildlife conservation, the amount of wildlife is diminishing day by day. The World Wild Life Fund is a global organization that does a praiseworthy job of encouraging wildlife protection. National agencies are also involved in wildlife conservation.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Steps Towards Wildlife Conservation
To study and retrieve all wildlife data, in particular, the amount and development of wildlife.
Habitat protection through forest protection.
Delimiting their natural habitat regions.
Protecting animals against pollution and natural hazards.
Full limitation on wildlife hunting and capture.
To impose constraints on the export and importation of wildlife products and to impose serious penalties on those engaged in such activity.
Developing game sanctuaries for particular wildlife or world life in particular.
Special arrangements should be made to safeguard those very restricted species.
To create a general understanding of wildlife protection at domestic and international level.
The adoption by trained personnel of a wildlife management system.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp