500 Words Work Is Worship Essay
The life we receive is given by God and so is this beautiful earth. It gives us all the necessary things to lead a happy life. However, some people do not understand the importance of all this. The proverb work is worship helps us understand that work is real worship. Through work is worship essay, we will understand its meaning and importance.
Work is Worship
This proverb teaches us that real worship is work. It does not take away the fact of worshipping God, but it lays emphasis on work. While it is good to spend hours worshipping God, it is also important to worship your work.
The proverb does not literally ask us to worship work. It makes us understand that we must treat our work utmost importance. Once we start doing it, we can get the same satisfaction we get from worshipping God.
In other words, if we have faith in our own work, we will not lose hope in life. Even when things turn terrible, we will be able to make our way out of it by working hard. Thus, we must take our work as worship in order to have a peaceful mind and soul.
Work will help us derive real pleasure in life. When we will worship our work, we will value it a lot more. As a result, we will be able to perform well in life and attain all the satisfaction.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
Importance of Working Hard
It is important to work passionately and with commitment because then we will be able to achieve success. Our work is what adds great meaning to life. When we do not work, life becomes dull and uninteresting.
Thus, to avoid monotony, we work hard. Every great civilization you see has been achieved through hard work and commitment. Man is the most skilled creation who is meant to work hard.
Our intelligent brain allows us to do the right work and have a logical conclusion. If a person sits idle, he will ultimately become unhappy. As we know, an idle mind is the workshop of the devil.
Thus, when we will work with full commitment, we will get real peace and satisfaction in life. It will also bring us closer to success. Similarly, every one of us has dreams of some kind.
Through hard work, we can achieve our dreams, no matter how big or small. Moreover, when we give our best, we will be able to fulfil all our needs. In addition, working hard also makes a person better and more disciplined.
Thus, we can achieve hard work when we believe that work is worship. In order to do so, we must believe in the power of hard work.
Conclusion of Work Is Worship Essay
All in all, work is worship because if we don’t do work properly, it will not give a good outcome. When we will consider our work as worship, we will try to do our best. Work adds meaning to our lives and brings confidence. Thus, it is best to work hard and well so that we can lead a great and content life.
FAQ on Work Is Worship Essay
Question 1: Who said that work is worship?
Answer 1: Mahatma Gandhi said this. It was because he wanted to instil the importance of hard work in his countrymen and how it produces great results, thus he said this.
Question 2: Why do we say that work is worship?
Answer 2: We use this proverb because it teaches us about the value of work. When we compare the work to that of God, man will do it more diligently. Thus, it will produce a great outcome.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp