Essay on World Health Day
World Health Organization celebrates global health day every year on 7th April worldwide to create awareness on the benefits of being healthy. On this day numerous programs and arrangements are curated by the World Health Organisation. World Health Day was first time celebrated worldwide in the year 1950. It is universal: “Health is Wealth”. It is the utmost important aspect of our existence which can’t be denied. We all know various types of diseases prevail in the environment due to which people suffer. It is necessary to spread awareness among people and to impart knowledge about health.
World Health Day – History
Every year, the World Health Organisation observes World Health Day on 7 April to draw the attention of the masses towards the importance of global health. World Health Organisation was formed in 1948 in Geneva. This day World Health Assembly was held the first time and it was decided to celebrate 7th April as World Health Day. On this day, various events with a particular theme are organized by Who at the international and national level.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
World Health Day: Activities
At the global level, this day targets all the issues related to health and for this several programs are organized on a yearly basis by the WHO.
It is celebrated worldwide by the government of all participant countries, NGO’s and other organizations.
Health authorities from different countries participate in the celebrations with their pledges to support on the health issues worldwide.
It acts as a reminder to people about the establishment of WHO and to spread awareness among people about major health issues in the world.
WHO has worked on eradicating various serious health issues in developing countries like chickenpox, polio, smallpox, TB, leprosy, etc.
Themes of World Health Day since the year 2000
2000 – Safe Blood Start with me
2001 – Mental Health: Stop Exclusion, Dare to Care
2002 – Move for Health
2003 – Shape the Future of Life: Healthy Environments for Children
2004 – Road safety
2005 – Make every mother and child count
2006 – Working together for health
2007 – International health security
2008 – Protecting Health from the Adverse Effects of Climate Change
2009 – Save Lives, Make Hospitals Safe in Emergencies
2010 – Urbanization and Health: Make Cities Healthier
2011 – Antimicrobial Resistance: No Action Today, No Cure Tomorrow
2012 – Good Health Adds Life to Years
2013 – Hypertension: Silent Killer, Global Public Health Crisis
2014 – Vector-borne diseases
2015 – Food safety
2016 – Diabetes: Scale up prevention, strengthen care, and enhance surveillance
2017 – Depression: Let’s talk
2018 – Universal Health Coverage: everyone, everywhere
Conclusion
It is said that good Health provides better capabilities to work as per the requirements of the growing World and hence is very important. World Health Organisation (WHO)’s foundation was laid on the principle that all humans realize their right to the highest possible level of health. A slogan of “Health for all” is for more than seven decades old and works as a guiding vision.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp