500+ Words Essay on World Environment Day
World environment day Essay – Our environment is one of the most important aspects to survive on this planet. Moreover, it is the only thing that can make life sustainable. Without it, we cannot survive even a single day. For instance, our skin will burn, the lungs will get ruptured, our blood pressure would rise.
Furthermore, we will not have food and water to survive. And this will also be possible because of the imbalance of heat and atmospheric pressure. Thus it is important that we should take care of the environment. Also, abandon all the exploitation that we are causing it.
World Environment Day
World Environment on 5th June every year. People from more than 100 countries celebrate this day. Furthermore, the world environment day is run by the United Nations Environment Programme(UNEP). Since the year 1973. Above all the main purpose of celebrating this day was to spread awareness. The awareness was about the conservation of our environment.
Moreover to also take various preventive measures to avert the effects of Global warming. Since we all know that Global warming is the root cause of the ruin of our environment. Therefore it is our duty to protect our environment. And stop all the exploitation that is destroying it. Because in the end, it is our basic need for our survival and our generations ahead.
What do we do on World Environment Day?
On the world environment day, we all take a day off from our work. And join various campaigns to spread awareness about environment protection. Moreover, we all plant small saplings in a barren land so that it may grow and flourish in the land area after some years. Also, we take part in various processions to make people aware of this day. So that they may also take part in protecting our environment.
Furthermore, in schools, the teachers teach the students the methods to plant a tree. The school provides buses to take the students to the jungles. There they come to know about the different types of plants. And the types of vegetation in which they survive. Also, the students have to bring a sapling from their homes and plant them inside the ground. This helps them in getting practical knowledge. Further, it also creates an emotional attachment to the environment.
Get the huge list of more than 500 Essay Topics and Ideas
World Environment Day 2019
The theme for world environment day 2019 is ‘ Air Pollution’. Furthermore this year China was the host country for this day. Air pollution is one of the major causes of Global Warming. Because of which many hazardous Consequences are arising. The problem is reaching a point where people are not able to breathe properly.
Moreover, disease like lung cancer is affecting even the minors. As a result, is a major threat to the people living in urban areas. To reduce the risk of air pollution China is establishing various air purifiers in their ecosystem. With the help of these people are at least getting pollution-free air to breathe.
In addition, it is also taking mandatory measures like population reduction, banning the use of plastic, and planting trees in every community. This can help to avert the ruining of the environment caused in the past years.
Share with friends
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp